Germany's highest court said it had upheld a complaint from a man convicted of murder in 1982 because archived reports about the crime appeared first in internet searches for his name. In a statement released on Wednesday, the judges ruled that while it was allowable for search engines to provide news reports on current crimes, the justifiable public interest in reports that made perpetrators identifiable decreased with time. The case in question was a major news story in Germany in 1982. The man, a member of the crew of a sailing ship named Apollonia, shot and killed two people and severely injured another, following a row on board when the ship was in the Caribbean. The man, then in his early 40s, was released from prison in 2002. Read more: EU court: Google need not apply 'right to be forgotten' outside EU The case became famous enough to be turned into a book and a TV documentary aired by public broadcaster ARD in 2004. In 1999, news magazine Der Spiegel put three print reports from 1982 and 1983, in which the man's full name appeared, in its freely available online archive. On becoming aware of the archive in 2009, the perpetrator launched a legal campaign to have the reports removed. Germany's Federal Court of Justice initially dismissed his suit, on the grounds that the public had an interest in learning about the Apollonia murders and that his name was inextricably tied to the events. The man argued that the internet archive represented a violation of his privacy rights and his "ability to develop his personality," as the court statement put it. Google has already been taken to the EU court over the issue of the right to be forgotten Decision welcomed Lawyers and press freedom advocates both welcomed Wednesday's statement, though for different reasons. "Even with spectacular cases and serious crimes like murder, perpetrators have a right to be forgotten and a new chance in society," data privacy lawyer Christian Solmecke told DW. "That insight is equally right and just. It's only by making it possible for past records to recede that individuals have a chance to start anew in freedom." The ruling means that German media outlets can still place old articles in a publicly available online archive, but may also be required to remove them if individuals demand it. According to Solmecke, a court should decide on a case-by-case basis whether enough time has passed for the removal of old records is warranted and how much of the record should be deleted. "In some cases, the deletion of the whole article might be appropriate; in others just the removal and deletion of the name of the person in question," Solmecke said. "That would mean the article could still be found, but the affected person would no longer be found in connection with the crime." The German office of press freedom group Reporters Without Borders (ROG) also praised the even-handedness of the Constitutional Court's statement, because the judges underlined the importance of press freedom while making such decisions. "This is a long-overdue clarification that does not fundamentally put the protection of personal rights above the basic right to press freedom," ROG head Christian Mihr said in a statement. "At least for Germany, this has reduced the danger that the media's online archives are made unusable for journalistic research by exaggerated restrictions." Long-running issue The issue of how internet search engines must balance privacy rights with the freedom of information has dogged courts in Germany and at the European level for some time. Google won a victory in April when the European Court of Justice decided that it did not have to apply an EU law requiring the removal of search engine results upon request outside of EU borders. That decision came after the French data watchdog CNIL fined Google €100,000 ($109,790) in 2016 for declining to delete sensitive information from global internet search results. Germany's Constitutional Court decided that though EU law was valid, in this case, it was its duty to protect the constitutional rights of German citizens. Whether hate speech, propaganda or activism, governments across the globe have upped efforts to curb content deemed illegal from circulating on social networks. From drawn-out court cases to blanket bans, DW examines how some countries try to stop the circulation of illicit content while others attempt to regulate social media. After a public debate in Germany, a new law on social media came into effect in October. The legislation imposes heavy fines on social media companies, such as Facebook, for failing to take down posts containing hate speech. Facebook and other social media companies have complained about the law, saying that harsh rules might lead to unnecessary censorship. In 2014, the European Court of Justice ruled that European citizens had the right to request search engines, such as Google and Bing, remove "inaccurate, inadequate, irrelevant or excessive" search results linked to their name. Although Google has complied with the ruling, it has done so reluctantly, warning that it could make the internet as "free as the world's least free place." In May 2017, Ukraine imposed sanctions on Russian social media platforms and web services. The blanket ban affected millions of Ukrainian citizens, many of whom were anxious about their data. The move prompted young Ukrainians to protest on the streets, calling for the government to reinstate access to platforms that included VKontakte (VK), Russia's largest social network. In 2015, the European Court of Justice ruled that Safe Harbor, a 15-year-old pact between the US and EU that allowed the transfer of personal data without prior approval, was effectively invalid. Austrian law student Max Schrems launched the legal proceedings against Facebook in response to revelations made by former US National Security Agency (NSA) contractor, Edward Snowden. In China, the use of social media is highly regulated by the government. Beijing has effectively blocked access to thousands of websites and platforms, including Facebook, Twitter, Instagram and Pinterest. Instead, China offers its citizens access to local social media platforms, such as Weibo and WeChat, which boast hundreds of millions of monthly users. Many politicians and media outlets blame Russia's influence for Donald Trump's election victory in 2016. Moscow reportedly used Facebook, Twitter, Google, and Instagram to shape public opinion on key issues. In October 2017, Twitter suspended over 2,750 accounts due to alleged Russian propaganda. The platform also banned ads from RT (formerly Russia Today) and the Sputnik news agency. With social media under pressure for allowing alleged Russian meddling, Facebook announced a new project to combat such efforts in November 2017. The upcoming page will give users a chance to check if they "liked" or followed an alleged propaganda account on Facebook or Instagram. Meanwhile, Facebook has come under fire for not protecting user data in the wake of the Cambridge Analytica scandal. Author: Lewis Sanders IV (dj)