The detention of a Turkish lawyer who had been working with the German Embassy in Ankara sparked outrage in Germany, with officials across the political spectrum urging for the lawyer's release. At the G20 summit in Nagoya, German Foreign Minister Heiko Maas said he would address the issue with his Turkish counterpart, Mevlut Cavusoglu. Before the meeting Maas spoke of his intention to raise the issue with Cavusoglu, saying there needed to be a "swift resolution." Lawyer was assisting German asylum cases The lawyer had been assisting the embassy in Ankara by looking into the cases of Turkish citizens seeking asylum in Germany. Turkish authorities have accused him of espionage and seized documents on dozens of asylum-seekers when they arrested the man in September. The head of Germany's Federal Office for Migration and Refugees (BAMF) described the situation as a "foreign policy scandal." BAMF president Hans-Eckhard Sommer, said that it is standard practice in Europe for embassies to employ local lawyers to investigate asylum claims, Die Welt newspaper reported. March 31, 2016: Turkish President Recep Tayyip Erdogan filed charges against German comedian and satirist Jan Böhmermann over his "defamatory poem" about the Turkish leader. German prosecutors eventually dropped the charges on October 4, 2016, but the case sparked a diplomatic row between Berlin and Ankara. June 2, 2016: The resolution passed almost unanimously. In response, Turkey recalled its ambassador in Berlin and Germany's Turkish community held protests in several German cities. Turkey had repeatedly criticized the use of the term genocide to describe the Ottoman-era Armenian killings, arguing that the number of deaths had been inflated, and that Turkish Muslims also perished in the violence. July 15, 2016: A faction of the Turkish military tried to overthrow President Recep Tayyip Erdogan, but ultimately failed. Ankara accused Berlin of not taking a clear stand against the coup attempt or not doing anything about exiled preacher Fethullah Gulen's organization, who Erdogan blames for orchestrating the failed coup. Immediately following the attempted coup, Turkish authorities purged the army and judiciary, detaining thousands of people. The purge expanded to include civil servants, university officials and teachers. German politicians criticize the detentions. Turkish diplomats, academics and military members fled the country and applied for asylum in Germany. Erdogan's post-coup crackdown has also been condemned by Kurdish protesters at several mass demonstrations in the west German city of Cologne. Often the rallies have called for the release of Abdullah Ocalan, the jailed leader of the Kurdistan Workers' Party (PKK), which Turkey considers to be a terror group. Ankara has accused Berlin of not doing enough to stop PKK activities. February 14, 2017: Deniz Yücel, a correspondent for the "Welt" newspaper, was taken into custody in Turkey. Other German nationals, including journalist Mesale Tolu and human rights activist Peter Steudtner were detained in Turkey for what Berlin dubbed "political reasons." Turkey accused them of supporting terrorist organizations. All three have since been released pending trial. March 2017: A number of German localities blocked Turkish ministers from holding rallies in their districts ahead of an April referendum in Turkey to enhance President Erdogan's powers. The Turkish leader then accused Germany of using "Nazi tactics" against Turkish citizens in Germany and visiting Turkish lawmakers. German leaders were not amused by the jibe, saying Erdogan had gone too far. March 30, 2017: Germany accused Turkey of spying on hundreds of suspected Gulen supporters as well as over 200 associations and schools linked to the Gulen movement in Germany. Turkish asylum-seekers have since accused officials working in Germany's immigration authority (BAMF) of passing on their information to media outlets with ties to the Turkish government. August 18, 2017: Turkish President Recep Tayyip Erdogan slammed three of Germany's main political parties as "enemies of Turkey" and told Turks living in Germany not to vote for them in September's general election. He singled out Merkel's Christian Democrats (CDU), the Social Democrats (SPD), and the Greens. Merkel said Erdogan was "meddling" in Germany's election. September 4, 2017: German Chancellor Angela Merkel said during an election debate that she didn't think Turkey should become a member of the European Union and said she would speak with other EU leaders about ending Ankara's accession talks. In October, she backed a move to cut Turkey's pre-accession EU funds. January 20, 2018: The Turkish military and their Syrian rebel allies launched "Operation Olive Branch" against the Kurdish-held enclave of Afrin in northern Syria. The move was criticized by German politicians and prompted large protests by Kurdish communities in Germany. February 16, 2018: Turkey ordered the release of German-Turkish journalist Deniz Yücel after he'd been held for over a year without charge. According to Turkish state media, Yücel was released on bail from pre-trial detention. Prosecutors asked for an 18-year jail sentence for Yücel on charges of "terror propaganda" and incitement. July 2018: German footballer Mesut Özil quit the national team following the fallout from his meeting with the Turkish president. Özil said he was being made a scapegoat for Germany's forgettable performance at the FIFA World Cup in Moscow because of his Turkish heritage. Erdogan praised Özil's decision and slammed the "racist" mistreatment of the footballer. August 2018: A Turkish court removed the travel ban on German journalist Mesale Tolu, who was arrested last year on terrorism-related charges. But the trial against Tolu, who has since returned to Germany, is set to continue. Her husband, Suat Corlu, who is facing similar charges, has been ordered to remain in Turkey. Author: Rebecca Staudenmaier Berlin must 'speak out in protest' Omid Nouripour, the Greens parliamentary foreign policy expert, told DW that the German government needs to send a clear signal to Turkish President Recep Tayyip Erdogan over the issue. "Arresting a representative of the German embassy is the next stage of provocation from Ankara," Nouripour said, adding that the Turkish government has "violated" diplomatic conventions. "The German government must finally speak out in protest and put up a stop sign for Erdogan," he added. Sevim Dagdelen, a member of the German parliament from the Left party with Turkish-Kurdish roots, criticized the Foreign Ministry for not going public with the story for nearly two months. Speaking with DW, she noted that people seeking protection in Germany "were probably exposed to immediate danger from the Turkish secret service and from Erdogan's network of spies and thugs in Germany." Jürgen Hardt, the foreign policy spokesman of Chancellor Angela Merkel's conservatives in parliament warned that the Turkish government is risking "a good relationship with Germany if they make carrying out regular embassy work more difficult." "I don't think the Turkish government is interested in escalating this," Hardt told Die Welt, adding that Ankara should let the lawyer go to avoid worsening ties with Berlin. DW's Jens Thurau contributed reporting. DW sends out a daily selection of hard news and quality feature journalism. Sign up here.