Poland will continue with its controversial justice system reforms, said Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki despite a ruling by the EU's top court. Judicial independence is important but "does not entail lack of responsibility," said Morawiecki in a speech on Tuesday as he outlined the ruling Law and Justice party's (PiS) priorities for a new term in office. "The citizens have a right to efficient courts" he added. Just hours before Morawiecki's speech, the European Court of Justice (ECJ) ruled that the Polish Supreme Court must determine whether its new disciplinary chamber is sufficiently independent to handle complaints brought by judges against their early retirement. The ruling was in response to a proposed controversial reform that would see the retirement age of Supreme Court justices lowered from 70 to 65, but allow the Polish president to grant a five-year extension to those they deemed worthy. Morawiecki: German, French, Spanish governments influence judiciary During his speech, Morawiecki continued to justify the reforms in an apparent reference to the ECJ ruling, saying that a member of the majority German Christian Democrats party (CDU) was appointed deputy head of the Constitutional Court. Morawiecki also cited the French and Spanish justice systems as further examples. "Does the opposition in these countries complain to international institutions that there is no rule of law there?" Morawiecki asked. The ECJ stopped short of finding that Poland's new disciplinary chamber was illegal Polish justices referred back to Supreme Court An ECJ branch reached a ruling earlier on Tuesday on a case brought by three Polish Supreme Court judges who filed a legal complaint after they were forced into retirement under the new reforms. The branch ruled that the Polish judges must have recourse to an independent body, but referred back to the Polish court to make this assessment, as well as noting that a number of factors could call into question the new chamber's independence from political influence. Retirement cases must "be examined by a court which meets the requirements of independence and impartiality and which, were it not for that provision, would have jurisdiction in the relevant field." The ECJ branch stopped short of ruling that the new chamber was illegal. Tuesday's ECJ decision wasthe latest in a line of rulings over the PiS' far-reaching reforms , which are viewed by the EU as challenging its judiciary values. Poland's Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki told the Polish Press Agency (PAP) last week that Poland will respect "any ruling that will be compatible with EU treaties and the Polish constitution," but also said the EU has the "obligation to respect" diverse legal systems and traditions of member states. The city of Bialystok receives 4 million Euros out of the European Regional Development Fund for its new interactive museum within the science communication center in Bialystok. The "Laboratorium Młodego Mistrza i Odkrywcy" is supposed to draw children and youth from all over the region. The development fund has supported the new fleet of electric buses in Jaworzno, in the south of Poland, with 9.5 million euros. It is supposed to improve public transport in the city as well as constitue another step on the path towards a sustainable transport system. Workers on railway line 216 between Działdowo and Olsztyn. With 81 Million euros in EU funds, the renovation of this railway line is one of the bigger development projects in the country, representative of many investments in infrastructure. The railway company PKP Polskie Linie Kolejowe SA is the third biggest recipient of funds in Poland, with more than half a billion euros total. In the Lower Silesian Oncology Center in Wroclaw, the first center for breast diseases in the region is being built and equipped with the support of 7 Million Euros out of the development fund. The Oncology Center has received funding through the ERDF in the past, for example for new equipment, a radiotherapy unit or programs for the prevention of breast cancer. With the help of 39 million euros out of the Regional Development fund, the hospital in Toruń in northern Poland is being extended and reconstructed – including the construction of a new, modern main building. Poland invests around 555 million euros in healthcare projects between 2014 and 2020. A five kilometers long beltway around the city of Bobrek is being built with regional development funds. The project is supposed to improve the region's infrastructure and reduce air pollution by reducing traffic in the inner city. A flyover on the Vistula river with a passageway for wild animals is also planned. Małopolska Province in Poland's south receives 20 Million euros for this project. Via the portal Polona.pl, Polish citizens can take a look into the archive of the biggest libraries in the country. To make that possible, the National Library of Poland and the Jagiellonian Library in Krakow are digitizing their archives with the help of EU funds. To this end, the National Library receives almost 20 Million Euros. A sign informs passers-by about the EU funding for the renovation of this intersection in the Polish city of Rzeszów. The city receives 112 Million Euros total for 15 different projects. Signs like this one can be found all over the member states of the European Union. Author: Kira Schacht kmm/ng (Reuters,dpa,AFP) Every evening at 1830 UTC, DW's editors send out a selection of the day's hard news and quality feature journalism. You can sign up to receive it directly here.