Evo Morales headed for Mexico on Tuesday after fleeing Bolivia. The Mexican Foreign Ministry said it had made the decision to grant an asylum request from the former Bolivian president for humanitarian reasons. Foreign Minister Marcelo Ebrard said Morales' "life and physical integrity" were at risk in Bolivia. Read more: Bolivia crisis: 5 things to know Mexico sent an air force jet to pick up Morales, whose photograph on board the flight was tweeted by Ebrard. "It pains me to leave the country for political reasons, but I will always be watching," Morales, who has led Bolivia for the past 14 years, tweeted. "I will be back soon with more strength and energy." The plane flew south for a stop in Paraguay after departing on Monday evening, before flying north to Mexico on Tuesday. Morales — Bolivia's first indigenous president —  quit his post on Sunday after an election on October 20 that saw him seek an unprecedented fourth term. A disputed win for the 59-year-old sparked civil unrest, and he came under pressure from the military to quit the post. Send  Facebook   Twitter   google+   Whatsapp   Tumblr   linkedin   stumble   Digg   reddit   Newsvine Permalink https://p.dw.com/p/3SpQD The world has reacted with a variety of perspectives on the developments of the last 24 hours, with the Organization of American States calling an emergency meeting Tuesday afternoon to discuss the situation. Read more: Bolivia protests: Student dies after violent clashes Mexico, Uruguay, Cuba, Venezuela and Argentine President-elect Alberto Fernandez have said Morales was deposed illegally. However, the US State Department has said the situation in Bolivia was not a coup. US President Donald Trump said that the events in Bolivia sent a strong signal to other Latin American countries, such as Venezuela and Nicaragua, and that "democracy and the will of the people will always prevail." rc/rt (Reuters, dpa, AP, EFE) Each evening at 1830 UTC, DW's editors send out a selection of the day's hard news and quality feature journalism. You can sign up to receive it directly here.