Hong Kong residents turned out in record numbers to vote in Sunday's district elections, with an overwhelming majority choosing candidates affiliated with the pro-democracy movement, in what activists are calling a clear signal of support for protesters' demands. Local broadcaster RTHK reported that pro-democracy parties took 390 out of 452 seats in the district council, or nearly 90%. The polls closed with 71.2% of eligible voters casting a ballot, the election commission said, easily surpassing the figure of 47% in the last such vote in 2015. Read more: Chinese spy defects, spills top state secrets to Australia "The government will certainly listen humbly to citizens' opinions and reflect on them seriously," Carrie Lam, the city's embattled chief executive, said in a statement issued by the government on Monday morning. Although the results represent voters' disapproval of the city's Beijing-backed government, Chinese Foreign Minister Wang Yi reaffirmed that Hong Kong is part of China, "no matter what happens." Symbolic victory for pro-democracy Surprise victories for pro-democracy candidates against strongly favored opponents led to some voting centers erupting in loud cheers and chants of "Liberate Hong Kong. Revolution Now" — a phrase used by many demonstrators in recent months. DW correspondent Phoebe Kong posted video of supporters celebrating the defeat of controversial pro-Beijing politician Junius Ho. The selection of 452 councilors, who manage local issues such as bus routes and garbage collection, generally does not attract much attention. But the vote has taken on greater significance after more than five months of political turbulence, as anti-government protesters agitate for democratic rights that they view as being suppressed by Beijing. DW's Charlotte Chelsom-Pill in Hong Kong said those protesters were "celebrating what they see as a massive victory and potentially a turning point in the six-month pro-democracy movement." Read more: China slams US bill backing Hong Kong protesters These elections have been widely viewed as a referendum on the popularity of the top leadership, with the district councils being the only leadership bodies in Hong Kong directly elected by the people. David Alton, a member of the British House of Lords who is among a number of international observers, told The Associated Press the unprecedented turnout "shows that there is a great groundswell in Hong Kong who believes in democracy." Read more: Opinion: No political solution in sight in Hong Kong Send  Facebook   Twitter   google+   Whatsapp   Tumblr   linkedin   stumble   Digg   reddit   Newsvine Permalink https://p.dw.com/p/3S8eS International reactions Beijing said on Monday it "resolutely" supports Lam's leadership of Hong Kong and that China's "one country, two systems "has not faltered." "The Chinese government's resolve to protect national sovereignty, security and development interest has not faltered. Its resolve to carry out one country, two systems has not faltered," said foreign ministry spokesman Geng Shuang at a regular press briefing. Geng added that Beijing supported Hong Hong's police and judiciary in "punishing relevant violent and illegal behaviors." Japan expressed concern Monday over the situation in Hong Kong. At a media briefing after a meeting in Tokyo between Japanese Foreign Minister Toshimitsu Motegi and China's Foreign Minister Wang Yi, Motegi stressed the importance of a free and open Hong Kong which can prosper under the "one country, two systems" model, according to a Japanese government official. Protesters stand in a supply room at Hong Kong Polytechnic University, the last campus to hold out in a week of violent protests in Hong Kong. As the number of protesters dwindled to around 100 on Tuesday, demonstrators said food and other supplies were running low. A riot police officer fires tear gas at anti-government protesters. In a dramatic moment, officers fired tear gas at protesters as they escaped down a rope descending from a footbridge. A protester holds a burning molotov cocktail during protests. Protesters assaulted police trying to enter the campus with the homemade explosives as well as arrows and bricks. A demonstrator sports a face-concealing mask. On Monday, the Hong Kong High Court ruled that the mask ban enacted over a month ago was unconstitutional. On Tuesday, a Chinese state media outlet condemned the decision to veto the ban and said that only China has the authority to rule on constitutional matters in Hong Kong. A protester tries to escape through a sewage tunnel. Around a dozen protesters tried to escape the university protests through the sewage system, but we're forced to turn back. US Secretary of State Mike Pompeo said the US was "gravely concerned" about recent developments in Hong Kong. He stressed that the US believes the government in Hong Kong is responsible for restoring peace. Young people go through a security control point set up at Hong Kong Polytechnic University on Tuesday morning. A group of parents and pastors called for police to let the students leave. They claimed that many were peaceful protesters who were stuck in campus for fear of being arrested for rioting. Emergency service workers remove a man from the campus. More than 200 people have been injured in two days of violent clashes Author: Kristie Pladson wmr, mvb/rt (dpa, Reuters, AP, AFP) Every day, DW's editors send out a selection of the day's hard news and quality feature journalism. You can sign up to receive it directly here.