Frankfurt Airport confirmed on Sunday morning that two passenger jets had collided on the tarmac hours earlier. A Korean Air Boeing 777 aircraft collided lightly with an Air Namibia aircraft after landing on Saturday at 6:20 p.m. (1720 GMT). The horizontal stabilizer on the Korean jet and the wingtip of the Namibian plane were both damaged, according to the Korean news agency Yonhap. There were no reports of injuries as the Air Namibia plane was "moving at low speed on the ground," the agency said, citing the Korean carrier. Read more: Airlines can stop drunk passengers from boarding flight: German court The Korean plane — which was scheduled to make a return flight to Seoul — was delayed as a result of the incident and passengers were offered hotel accommodations, reported the Frankfurter Allgemeine Zeitung newspaper. The flight was rescheduled and was expected to take off some 21 hours later than originally planned. The German Federal Bureau of Aircraft Accident Investigation (BFU) launched an investigation into the collision, the Hessenschau news portal reported. Illegal contraband is seized virtually every day at Frankfurt Airport - even if it is not always clear whether those sending or carrying it knew that it was illegal. This dagger violates Germany's weapons control laws. Forging labels of high-street brands remains one of the most common crimes uncovered by customs officers, who presented this fake Reebok sneaker at a press conference this week Sometimes customs officers have to have a sharp eyes. Last year, they noticed that these nail clippers weren't really from the town of Solingen - another example of fraud. Ivory is a much-smuggled material - and buying and selling it can be a violation of the Washington Convention on International Trade in Endangered Species. The current on this electronic pulse cigarette lighter was found to be too high - another violation of the law that officers pulled up. It was taken out of circulation. This Chinese imitation Lego was seized - an obvious and illegal copy of the original. Smuggled weapons sometimes fall into the hands of German customs officials too. Author: Ben Knight kw/mm (dpa) Each evening at 1830 UTC, DW's editors send out a selection of the day's hard news and quality feature journalism. You can sign up to receive it directly here.