+++++Click here to refresh the page for the latest updates+++++ Lap 30/71 Leclerc is told to go onto "Plan C" by the team radio. I wonder what happened to Plan A and Plan B? Either way the Ferrari driver is into the pits for the first time and switches to the hard tires. Lap 29/71 Hamilton asks if he has "an engine problem" and is told by the engineer that "temps are a little hot", but that everything is ok. The world champion has just admitted he's having trouble keeping up with the race leader - "we should have gone on mediums." Snapshot from Sao Paolo Lap 28/71 Bottas pits with Verstappen hot on his heels and drops down to P5. Lap 27/71 Vettel pits and changes to the medium tires. He exits in P5 behind Ferrari teammate Leclerc, but a one-stop strategy could give him an edge today. Lap 26/71 There was almost a crash in the pit lane between Kubica and Verstappen that is now being looked at by the race officials. Lap 25/71 The pit stops have sparked this race into life as Verstappen and Hamilton both get past Albon. Hamilton is complaining about his battery, which could see him struggle. Lap 23/71 Hamilton nips past Leclerc who also loses out to Verstappen before the Red Bull driver bursts around the outside of Hamilton to take P4. A lovely move and it didn't take long for him to get back ahead. Lap 22/71 Verstappen follows suit on the next lap, but he comes out behind Hamilton in P6. Vettel currently leads with Bottas and Albon behind him. Lap 21/71 Hamilton is in the pits first as he undercuts Verstappen. Lap 20/71 Ricciardo looks like he might be ready to go on the attack with nothing to lose. Lap 18/71 Verstappen and Hamilton are still going back and forth, but the Red Bull driver has to be feeling good about the lead he's built up whilst battling on the soft tires. "I wonder how long these tyres are gonna go," says Max. Lap 17/71 A message to Sebastian Vettel over the team radio: "We are on plan Plan A plus two." A puzzler!? Lap 16/71 Ricciardo is given a five-second penalty for causing the accident with Magnussen, but he's already in P20 right now. Lap 15/71 Those on soft tires like race leader Verstappen will need to be thinking of pitting soon given the temperatures out on the track. Lap 14/71 As things stand, Verstappen would move up into third in the driver's championships standings - not that it makes much difference given that Hamilton has already wrapped up the title. Lap 13/71 Verstappen is no longer extending his lead as Hamilton goes faster than the Red Bull driver for the first time. The gap is now at 2.1s. Lap 12/71 Verstappen is on the soft tires and gives the Red Bull team an update on how they're holding up: "Yeah, they're ok. I felt a bit of vibration on the left front." Lap 11/71 Damage fixed. Lap 10/71 After being penalised in qualifying and starting furter back as a result, Ferrari's Leclerc is driving like a man possessed! Lap 8/71 Spinout on lap 8! Lap 8/71 Albon is battling with Bottas for P4 and gets words on encouragement over the team radio: "Well done Alex - keep hassling him if you think you can pass." Lap 6/71 Sainz has also shot up the standings. After starting all the way at the back - he's up into 16th and aiming for a points-finish. Lap 4/71 Are we set to see Verstappen and Hamilton duke it out for P1? The world champion will want to set a marker for next season given how strong Verstappen has been at the tail of end of this season. Lap 2/71 Elsewhere, Leclerc has moved up four spots into 10th after enjoying a blistering start further down the pack. Lap 1/71 It's a clean start in Brazil, as Hamilton burns rubber to get past Vettel on the first corner. A brave move that pays dividends. LIGHTS OUT! We're underway in Sao Paolo! Can Verstappen hold onto pole to claim a third win of the season or does the Brazilian Grand Prix have a few tricks up its sleeve? Sharp reactions! A touching tribute Not long to go now! Talking to Sky Sports Germany, Bernie Ecclestone wasn't interested in calling out a potential winner for today's race: "It'll be one of the front three, but it's impossible to say who, I just hope it's a good race." Big-name Brazilians in attendance Dani Alves has said he's got his fingers crossed for Lewis Hamilton, as "he's a good personal friend". Temperatures soaring A lot is being made of the temperature of the track which is a good 15-18 °C warmer than yesterday at 49 °C. That could mean that teams opt to make use of the hard tires which should hold up better. Half an hour to go! Verstappen starting from the front is the fifth time a Red Bull driver has taken pole in Brazil. McLaren have the most with 12, closely followed by Ferrari with 11, and Williams with six. The front three Sebastian Vettel on qualifying: "Both Red Bull and Mercedes look a bit stronger managing tyres, but we are there for a reason - we have the speed, we have the power. We'll see what we can do." Max Verstappen edged out Ferrari's Sebastian Vettel and world champion Lewis Hamilton to claim pole in Brazil. A chance at redemption Verstappen may be able to laugh about it now, but it was certainly no laughing matter when he crashed out at last season's Brazilian Grand Prix. On course for victory having climbed from fifth to first, the then 21-year-old touched tires while Esteban Ocon was trying to unlap himself - a costly mistake that he'll be keen to atone for today. Max is fired up! Max Verstappen after claiming pole position: "The car was really good. From Q1 the car was flying and really enjoyable to drive. Really happy with this pole position." Verstappen chasing third win Hello and welcome one and all to DW's coverage of the Brazilian Grand Prix. It's the penultimate race fo the Formula 1 season and, while Mercedes and Lewis Hamiltonhave already claimed silverware, Red Bull are enjoying a strong finish to the campaign. With Max Verstappen starting from pole position it's fair to say that anything could happen, as he goes in search of his third victory of the season following triumphs in Austria and Germany.