The capital city club, who sit 15th in the table after a shambolic 4-0 loss to Augsburg on Sunday, announced Jürgen Klinsmann's appointment until the end of the season on Wednesday, following much media speculation. He replaces Ante Covic, a former youth coach who only took charge of Hertha at the start of this season following Pal Dardai's four years at the helm. Former Werder Bremen and FC Ingolstadt coach Alexander Nouri will join as Klinsmann's assistant Klinsmann, who won the World Cup and European Championships as a player, led Germany to third place at the 2006 World Cup before a short stint as Bayern Munich coach was cut short before the end of his debut season. He then took over the United States national team, taking them to the World Cup in 2014 before a dreadful qualifying campaign for the 2018 tournament saw his contract terminated. The 55-year-old, whose goalkeeping son Jonathan is on Hertha's books, was set for role on Hertha's supervisory board with the club making changes following significant recent investment from Tennor Holding B.V, who now own slightly less than half of the club. Klinsmann's first game in charge will be the visit of Borussia Dortmund, whose own coach, Lucien Favre, is under significant pressure, on Saturday. Eight of Klinsmann's first ten games will be against clubs currently in the Bundesliga's top 10 and with Hertha precariously close to the relegation playoff spot, he'll need to get to work quickly. Rebuilding foundations Under Dardai, Hertha had become a club renowned for stability and solidity, though those qualities sometimes came at the expense of excitement, with the Hungarian coach happy to grind out points through organization and discipline. Covic's attempts to tweak that formula and find more a more expansive style have fallen flat after a promising start that included an opening day draw away at Bayern Munich. Hertha haven't won in their last five league games and lost their first top flight derby against Union Berlin. In Germany international Niklas Stark and Marvin Plattenhardt, burly Dutch center back Karim Rekik, and promising young defenders Jordan Torunarigha and Maximilian Mittelstädt, Klinsmann has the tools to build a solid unit once again. However, tactics and organization have rarely been seen as his strongest coaching attributes, with youth development and man management more up Klinsmann's alley. The detail may be left to Nouri. Make Dodi deadly At the other end, there's plenty resting on the shoulders of record signing Dodi Lukebakio, who was benched for Covic's last game after a dip in form. The 21-year-old forward's €20 million preseason arrival from Watford after a strong loan season at Fortuna Düsseldorf was a sign of the changing financial times at the club, with his fee almost double that of their previous record signing. Hertha have looked blunt in attack in recent games Veteran forwards Saloman Kalou and Vedad Ibisevic defined the Dardai era in an attacking sense but Klismann must move on. In Lukebakio, Davie Selke (24) and Dortmund loanee Marius Wolf (24), the incoming coach has talent up top but must find a way to get the best from them. As a man with well over 300 career goals, he should be well qualified. Managing expectations The initial investment of €125 million ($142m), which has since been increased, is a record amount for the Bundesliga and, as such, brings increased expectations. "We see it as a long-term and promising agreement," said Lars Windhorst, Tennor's chairman and face of the deal, upon its announcement. Windhorst's plans are believed to include finally moving Hertha to a new purpose-built stadium and giving Germany the kind of significant capital city club that cities like London or Madrid have long enjoyed. Even as Klinsmann takes over, there are rumors that another former Bayern Munich coach, Niko Kovac, could be set for the job in the summer, with Klinsmann taking his seat on the board after all. Kovac made 138 Bundesliga appearances for Hertha and was born in Berlin's Wedding district. For now, it seems a big step down the Bundesliga ladder. But will that be the case come the end of the season? Zebec was appointed Bayern coach in July 1968. Zebec managed to win the double in his first season in charge, the first in the Bundesliga's history. The following season was less glamorous, with Bayern being knocked out of the European Cup in the first round. Zebec later announced he would not extend his contract, but was sacked midway through the season after a three-match winless spell. After Franz Beckenbauer was appointed the club's president, Trapattoni was given the job in 1994, with Bayern expecting the former Juventus coach to bring his successful touch to the Olympiastadion. However, Trapattoni ended the season trophyless and was sacked. Trap did have a second stint as Bayern coach, in which he won a league title and the German cup. The former Bremen boss was appointed Bayern's coach in July 1995. After going on a shopping spree, signing Jürgen Klinsmann, Andreas Herzog and others, Bayern were expected to glide to the Bundesliga title. That was hardly the case. Rehhagel didn't even finish his first season in charge and was famously sacked four days before Bayern were due to play the first leg of the UEFA Cup final. After impressing with Stuttgart, Magath was officially presented as Bayern Munich's coach in July 2004. While his first two seasons brought back-to-back doubles for the first time in the Bundesliga's history, the 06/07 season was disappointing in comparison and after being fourth in January, Magath was sacked. The former Bayern striker was appointed after a successful spell as Germany coach and expectations were high due to his revolutionary methods used with the national team. But, he didn't deliver. Klinsmann was sacked in April 2009, with five matches to go in the Bundesliga season and Bayern third. Club legend Philipp Lahm has since described Klinsmann's campaign at the club as a "failure". After the Klinsmann bet backfired, the Bayern hierarchy decided to go with experience. Van Gaal referred to Bayern as a "dream club", and the Dutchman managed to win the double in his first season in charge, while only losing to Jose Mourinho's Inter Milan in the Champions League final. The second season was less than glorious, with van Gaal sacked in April after slipping out of the top three. Ancelotti joined Bayern in July 2016, after Pep Guardiola announced he would not extend his contract at the club. The Italian may have won the league in his first season, but Bayern's form for the most part failed to impress. After suffering Bayern's biggest Champions League group stage defeat of all time, 3-0 to PSG, the club announced Ancelotti had been sacked. Author: Felix Tamsut