Turkish presidential spokesperson Ibrahim Kalin defended Ankara's military operation in northern Syria by saying that Turkey's objective was to clear the shared border from "terrorist elements." "We have had a very clear policy line on this issue," Kalin told DW's Conflict Zone host Tim Sebastian during a special interview organized as part of the Berlin Foreign Policy Forum in cooperation with the Körber Foundation. Turkish forces advance towards Syria as part of 'Operation Peace Spring' 12 October 2019 "We do not want to see any terrorist elements taking over a piece of land, ruling over people in Syria, whether by PKK (the Kurdistan Workers Party), ISIS, al-Qaida or any other groups," Kalin said. Turkey launched 'Operation Peace Spring' in October against Kurdish militias in Syria after President Recep Tayyip Erdogan spoke with his US counterpart. Following the phone call, Donald Trump ordered the withdrawal of American troops from the area. The move left the Kurdish forces in Syria, who had fought with the U.S., on their own. The Turkish offensive drew criticism in Washington and raised concerns about its humanitarian impact. Displaced civilians? Syrian woman displaced by Turkish military operation 17 October 2019 Tim Sebastian cited James Jeffrey, the US special representative for Syria, who said Turkey had undermined the campaign against the so-called Islamic State, had endangered and displaced civilians and threatened the security of the area. US and Turkish troops in Syria 7 October 2019 But Kalin dismissed that accusation and stressed that "none of that happened." "They said that there would be a huge humanitarian crisis with the Turkish military operation. It didn’t happen. People went back to their homes," he added. Pressed by Sebastian on possible war crimes as part of the Turkish offensive, the  presidential spokesperson said that a number of investigations had been launched. Kalin refused to go into detail about them, saying that "some of them are operational details" which he would rather not share. Sebastian also pointed to a comment by William Roebuck, the top American diplomat in northern Syria, who in November said that Turkey’s military operation was an "effort at ethnic cleansing." Kalin simply said the Trump administration had not been able to "reconcile with the fact that we are taking this action against their so-called allies." "They are reconciling themselves with a PKK terrorist network in Syria giving them a piece of land, while at the same time talking about serious territorial integrity or ethnic balance in Syria," he added. UN sources say over 200,000 people have been internally displaced in Syria's northeast since Turkey launched its offensive on October 9. So far, the border town of Ras al-Ayn has paid the highest toll in the wake of a joint attack by Turkish militias and airstrikes. The city will remain under Turkish control following a deal struck in Sochi between Russia and Turkey. A majority of those who have fled are reportedly Kurds. Those civilians remaining in the city are mostly Arabs who are still in touch by phone with their former neighbors. "They told me yesterday that the Islamists were looting our house. We've lost everything," this man told DW. The regime forces are stationed just a few kilometers away from Tal Tamr. As a result international NGOs formerly based in the area have fled over the past few days. Internally displaced people (IDPs) from Ras al-Ayn and the neighboring villages rely on the work of local NGOs who are struggling to cope with the crisis. Apart from Tal Tamr, other villages in the vicinity are also hosting hundreds of displaced people who rely on local NGOs. "They're settling in empty villages, many of them too close to other locations controlled by either the Turkish-backed militias or 'Islamic State' sleeper cells," Hassan Bashir, a local NGO coordinator, told DW. This Arab IDP from Ras al-Ayn has four wives but will struggle to get enough to feed all their children as local NGOs say they can only allocate a single food ration per family. "It's not their fault, they're just children," he told DW, after being given a single bag of food rations. Schools have remained shut across Syria's northeast since the beginning of the offensive and several of them are now hosting IDPs from Ras al-Ayn. Those who can afford it will move to cities like Al-Hasakah, around 80 kilometers (50 miles) to the south, but others will have to cope with the dire conditions in a border city that faces further attacks from the north. 50 Kurdish families from Ras al-Ayn are now living in this abandoned school in Tal Tamr lacking both water and electricity. As the sanitary conditions deteriorate, local doctors and the hospital in Tal Tamr fear an outbreak of cholera and other diseases. "If we continue like this we'll have to get set for a huge humanitarian crisis," a local doctor told DW. Although the hospital in Tal Tamr is treating the wounded, it cannot help those suffering from diseases such as cancer.Two IDPs told DW that they were supposed to receive chemotherapy in Damascus before the offensive started, but that the current security situation makes it impossible for them to get there. The Christian village of Tell Nasri on the outskirts of Tal Tamr had remained empty since IS took over the area. The majority of its former inhabitants left during the IS siege when the militants destroyed the churches with explosives before the fall of the Caliphate. With nowhere else to go, several IDP families from Ras al-Ayn are now settling in Tell Nasri. These boys are among dozens stranded in Tell Nasri but the dire living conditions are the least of their problems. Just before this picture was taken, settlers told DW that they had been attacked from a neighboring village reportedly in the hands of Islamists. "They started shooting at us and we engaged [with them] for over an hour," a fighter with the Syrian Democratic Forces told DW. Author: Karlos Zurutuza (Tal Tamr) Criticism at home But as well as dealing with criticism on the military offensive from abroad, Turkish authorities have also tried to stop criticism from within the country. A report by Amnesty International said Turkey's broadcast regulator, RTUK, had warned media outlets that there would be zero tolerance of broadcasting that would negatively impact the soldiers' morale or mislead citizens through information "that serves the aims of terror." Kalin said there are "all kinds of different views attacking the president every single day" in Turkey. When Sebastian mentioned that nearly a thousand social media accounts had been closed down for sharing criminal content in the first week of the offensive, Kalin said that they were "spreading terrorist propaganda." "You wouldn't allow that in the UK," he added. "When you do it in the West, it is for 'public order.' When we do it, it's 'oppression'." Kalin stressed that journalists "who do their job" are free to report, but then criticized "those who spread propaganda" and "function as PKK operatives." Zero tolerance policy The spokesperson remained vague when Sebastian asked him about investigations on torture in Turkey. The NGO Freedom From Torture said that between 2011 and 2016, Turkey was one of the top 10 countries for referrals after torture. In 2016 it moved into the top five. Kalin simply said that "a number of investigations have been carried out," but did not offer any details about them. He did nevertheless add that Turkey has "a zero tolerance policy towards torture." Send  Facebook   Twitter   google+   Whatsapp   Tumblr   linkedin   stumble   Digg   reddit   Newsvine Permalink https://p.dw.com/p/3Tq9n "We have in fact cleared our prisons, our judicial system from torture. We have had this in the past," he said. Tim Sebastian then cited the Council of Europe’s Commissioner for Human Rights, who in 2017 said that the problem of effective investigations and the impunity of security forces in Turkey was very long-standing and entrenched. Kalin said that his country is "not in the business of fooling anyone." He added that Turkey is taking care of its "own national security" and in particular of what he described as "credible national security threats." After the Conflict Zone interview, Kalin faced questions from the audience. 