Evo Morales will be granted asylum in Mexico after the former Bolivian president made a request to live in the Central American country, a top official confirmed Monday. Mexican Foreign Minister Marcelo Ebrard told reporters:  "Several minutes ago I received a phone call from Evo Morales in which he responded to our offer and verbally and formally requested political asylum in our country." Read more: Bolivia crisis: 5 things to know "The Mexican Foreign Ministry, after consulting Interior Minister Olga Sanchez Cordero, made the decision to grant him asylum... for humanitarian reasons." Morales's "life and physical integrity are at risk in Bolivia," added Ebrard, confirming Mexico had asked the Bolivian Foreign Ministry to give guarantees over his safe passage to the Central American country. "We will immediately proceed to inform Bolivia's Foreign Ministry that under international law, it should offer safe conduct," he said. Send  Facebook   Twitter   google+   Whatsapp   Tumblr   linkedin   stumble   Digg   reddit   Newsvine Permalink https://p.dw.com/p/3SoRy Controversy, protests Morales, who quit his post Sunday following a disputed reelection on October 20 that resulted in civil unrest, was the South American country's first indigenous president. "It's so hard to see Bolivians clashing, no matter which side they're on," said opposition lawmaker Jeanine Anez, commenting on the deadly protests. "They are being mistreated, and I'm asking you to cease the violence." The 52-year-old deputy Senate speaker is constitutionally in line to become interim president until a new leader is elected. She is likely to be entrusted by Congress with overseeing a new election, as well as a transition to a future government. Politicians are set to convene Tuesday to begin the process. "Please excuse me if my voice breaks," Anez said between tears after arriving in Congress under heavy guard. "I hope that we now give some certainty in this country that needs it so much." Mixed responses The world has reacted with a variety of perspectives on the developments of the last 24 hours. US Democratic presidential candidate Bernie Sanders has suggested sinister powers ousted Morales. He tweeted: "I am very concerned about what appears to be a coup in Bolivia, where the military, after weeks of political unrest, intervened to remove President Evo Morales. The US must call for an end to violence and support Bolivia’s democratic institutions." President Donald Trump had a different take on proceedings, however. Trump said the events in Bolivia sent a strong signal to other Latin American countries, such as Venezuela and Nicaragua, and "that democracy and the will of the people will always prevail." He added: "We are now one step closer to a completely democratic, prosperous, and free Western Hemisphere." jsi/cmk (Reuters, dpa, AP, AFP) Each evening at 1830 UTC, DW's editors send out a selection of the day's hard news and quality feature journalism. You can sign up to receive it directly here.