Konstantin G.'s last message to his parents was short: "I've got to go." Three days later, he was dead. He was killed, say his parents and comrades, in a Turkish air strike on Ras-al-Ain in northeastern Syria. He was a member of the YPG, the left-leaning Kurdish Peoples' Defense Unit, until recently America's main partner in the ground offensive against the self-proclaimed "Islamic State." An abandoned partner The YPG is the main component of the Syrian Democratic Forces (SDF), a Kurdish, Arab and Christian umbrella group that led the US-backed fight against IS. Thousands of SDF fighters died in the battle. Following President Donald Trump's unexpected withdrawal of American troops from northeastern Syria in mid-October, the US effectively abandoned its former allies. The move opened the door for Turkish President Recep Tayyip Erdogan to launch an offensive against Syrian Kurds. Turkey moved swiftly, advancing into Kurdish-controlled areas in Syria within hours after American soldiers had withdrawn. Turkey considers the YPG a terrorist organization linked to the outlawed Kurdistan Workers' Party (PKK), which has been battling the Turkish state for decades in a bid for more autonomy and rights for the Kurdish minority in Turkey. Read more: Why Turkey wants a military assault on Syrian Kurds The withdrawal of US troops in October paved the way for an immediate incursion by Turkish forces From rumors to sad news Amidst the fighting, it took days for the news of their son's death to reach Konstantin G.'s parents, who asked that DW only use their son's initial to protect their family's identity: At first, they told DW, visibly dazed and shell-shocked by the news, they had heard rumors that a foreign fighter had died. They frantically trawled the Internet, reaching out to anyone who might be able to confirm the news they feared. Finally, they were told that their son had died in a Turkish air raid. While DW is unable to independently verify how and when Konstantin G. was killed, another German national fighting with the Kurdish forces confirmed that he died in a Turkish air raid in Ras-al-Ain. He also shared a photo of Konstantin G.'s passport with DW. Konstantin G. had trained to be a farmer and left for Syria in 2016, according to his parents. He was one of hundreds of foreigners who joined the Kurdish forces who were battling IS in Syria and Iraq and had set up a de facto autonomous, secular region in northeastern Syria, named Rojava. Their military success against "Islamic State" and their left-leaning ideology drew volunteers from across the world. Read more: German national joins the Kurdish cause against 'IS' Displaced people fleeing northern Syria after Turkish attacks According to German officials, as many as 200 German nationals may have joined the Kurdish cause. At least two other German nationals have died in the battle against IS. But it is unclear if they all joined YPG. A spokesman for Rojava told DW that hundreds of foreign volunteers moved to northeastern Syria, including Germans, but "mostly in civilian capacities." At first, the German authorities did little as its nationals joined the Kurdish cause, but more recently they have cracked down on fighters, issuing travel bans and launching investigations for suspected membership in a terrorist organisation. Konstantin G., too, had been questioned by German officials, who his parents say received a tip-off by the British authorities. Send  Facebook   Twitter   google+   Whatsapp   Tumblr   linkedin   stumble   Digg   reddit   Newsvine Permalink https://p.dw.com/p/3SLwN Joined Kurds out of conviction Konstantin G., who went by his nom de guerre "Andok Cotkar" had joined the Kurds in the autumn of 2016, as they had made headlines as they had wrested control of the city of Kobani from IS. "He knew he was putting himself in danger," his parents told DW. At first, he did not tell his family where he was going. He was in his early 20s; a reserved man, according to his parents, who was searching for his place in life and driven by a "sense of justice" as he learnt about the atrocities committed by the IS. And, they say, he was happy in Rojava — and knowing that comforts them. Konstantin G.'s parents shared pictures with DW that show their son posing with other men in uniform. In one photo, they smile and pull faces for the camera, in another they clutch their weapons, their faces serious. Konstantin G. who fought as "Andok Cotkar" for the YPG, was driven by a strong "sense of justice," say his parents Their son's reasons for leaving are understandable for his parents, who describe his goals as "good and right." Yet they say while they respect his choices, "the path he chose would not have been ours." His commander told DW that Konstantin G. had voluntarily decided to join the fight against the Turkish offensive. Konstantin G. was just 24 years old when he was killed. Shortly after, Turkey and Russia struck a deal that halted the offensive, requiring Kurdish fighters to pull back 30 kilometers (19 miles) from the Turkish border. Konstantin G.'s parents, together with the Kurdish community in his hometown, want to hold a memorial ceremony for him. Not being able to give him a proper burial weighs upon them as "extremely painful." They wish to be able to bury him in Rojava, where they believe he was happy. "We want to be able to say: 'His heart rests in Rojava.'" DW's Esther Felden contributed to this report. According to UN sources almost 200,000 people have become IDPs (internally displaced people) since Turkey launched an attack on Kurdish-controlled territories on October 9. Many Kurds have reportedly tried to cross the border to seek shelter in the Kurdistan region of Iraq, but only those who can produce an Iraqi-Kurdish resident card are allowed to cross. Many villages in Syria's northeast have nearly emptied of people over the last week. Women and children in towns close Turkey have been heading further inland, to Hassakeh, leaving the border region inhabited almost only by men. "Conditions are deteriorating rapidly in Hassakeh due to the massive flux of people, so we decided to stay," Suna, a mother of three children told DW. The once lively bazaar in Amuda has turned into a gloomy place where just a few men gather. Many shops have folded since the Turkish invasion began, and those which remain open sell products at hardly affordable prizes due to the collapse of the Syrian currency. Shelling form the other side of the frontier usually starts at dawn, so those who remain in the town hardly venture outside at night. Coexistence between the Syrian Kurdish administration and President Bashar Assad's regime in Qamishli, the main city in the country's northeast, has been tense since the Syrian civil war started in 2011. The recent deal between the two sides involves a redeployment of Syrian troops along the Turkish border. It is unclear who will be in control of the region in the short term. While Kurdish combat units fight against the Turkish army and Ankara-backed militants, it's still unclear what the Syrian Kurdish fighters' status will be since reaching out to Assad for support. "We will keep controlling the area as we've done until today, there will be no substantial changes other than a joint command in certain border areas," officials told DW. Syrian Kurds feel betrayed since the US president decided to pull out all remaining troops. Many told DW they felt relief that the Kurdish fighters had struck a deal with the Syrian regime to control the border areas as it could prevent Turkey from attacking their villages. "We know what Trump did to us, but we still know nothing about Putin's intentions," said Massud, a barbershop customer. After decades of brutal repression under the Assads, many residents in Derik refused to comment on the possible consequences of the regime's comeback to an area that has enjoyed de facto self-rule for several years. "The whole country was controlled by the secret services back then, and it may happen again soon, so no one will dare to talk to you about it," one person said. All over Syria's northeast residents have had to deal corpses arriving daily from the frontlines. Turkish air strikes have hit both military targets and civilians so that many hospitals caring for wounded fighters, such as the one in Derik, have been evacuated to avoid further casualties. The Syrian Kurds claim to have lost around 11,000 people in the fight against the so-called Islamic State. Although IS has lost control over territory of any significant size, the killing continues. Dozens of civilians and hundreds of fighters have reportedly been killed since Turkey launched its attack on Syria's northeast. The Kurds in Syria opted to side neither with the regime nor the opposition after the civil war broke out in 2011. Now they stand alone, besieged and with no one to back them since their American allies withdrew. Author: Karlos Zurutuza (Northern Syria)