Several Buddhist sculptures that were smuggled out of Afghanistan to Britain almost two decades ago to prevent their destruction under the Taliban regime are to be returned to their country of origin, British police said on Monday. The nine heads and a figure, mostly representing bodhisattvas — the name given in the Buddhist religion to people on the way to achieving enlightenment — were confiscated at London's Heathrow Airport in 2002, according to police. They could not be returned to Afghanistan at the time because of the ongoing conflict there, they said. The works date back to the 4th-6th century CE, when Afghanistan was a majority-Buddhist country. Islamist iconoclasm They are thought to have been smuggled out via Pakistan after the Islamist Taliban government in Afghanistan banned all representations of the human form in 2001. The decree led, among other things, to the destruction of the famous Bamiyan statues of the Buddha and the decapitation of ancient sculptures in the National Museum of Afghanistan in Kabul (pictured above). The sculptures, which according to the British Museum are made of grey schist or plaster-covered clay, are to be returned to the Kabul museum in late December after being on display in London. The museum says it has helped return 2,345 objects, most of which were illegally trafficked, to Afghanistan, Iraq and Uzbekistan since 2009 alone. On April 15 a huge fire swept through the iconic Notre Dame Cathedral in Paris, considered a jewel of gothic architecture. Firefighters managed to save the roughly 800-year-old building's main stone structure, but the roof and other parts of the cathedral were destroyed. Several donors have already come forward to help with the cathedral's reconstruction. In 2004 a fire destroyed the main wing and a good part of the collection of historical books housed in the Anna Amalia Library. Millions of euros went toward the restoration of the library building, including its ornate Rococo-era room (above), and it was reopened in late 2007. During WWII, most of the collection had been housed elsewhere to keep it safe from Allied bombing. During the course of the Syrian Civil War, militants from the self-proclaimed "Islamic State" (IS) group in 2015 released propaganda videos showing the explosion of ancient shrines in Palmyra, Syria — including a more than 2,000-year-old temple. In 1980 UNESCO had designated the temple of Baalshamin as a World Heritage Site. It's architectural was a blend of Syrian, Egyptian and Roman styles. In in 2001 fundamentalist Taliban commanders ordered two huge 6th-century Buddha statues carved out of an ancient sandstone cliff blown up for being pre-Islamic "idols." The statues, which were between 35 and 53 meters (115 and 174 ft) tall, were exemplary representations of Greco-Buddhist art that flourished in central Asia. The world was shocked by the destruction. Once the residence of the Portuguese Royal family, the building was used as a museum beginning in the late 19th century until it was gutted by a fire in 2018. For the most part, the vast collections of the country's invaluable cultural and scientific heritage were destroyed in the flames that engulfed the 200-year-old building. Timbuktu is famous for its historic center, which dates back to Mali's 15th and 16th-century golden age when it was a center of learning. Parts of it, including mosques, shrines and tombs, were placed on UNESCO's World Heritage list in 1988. But in 2012 Islamists attacked multiple shrines, severely damaging them. Rebuilding followed and the sites, including the mausoleum above, reopened in 2016. Author: Dagmar Breitenbach Every evening at 1830 UTC, DW's editors send out a selection of the day's hard news and quality feature journalism. You can sign up to receive it directly here.