Chinese troops took to voluntarily cleaning Hong Kong's streets on Saturday to clear the city of debris and barricades left by protesters. During the clean-up, Chinese People's Liberation Army (PLA) soldiers threw bricks to the roadside and filled buckets and trolleys with debris, while others swept after them with brooms and shovels. Some soldiers occasionally left to take orders before returning to the clean-up. It was not clear how many troops were involved. The rare move left opinions divided among civilians in the territory, with some welcoming the army's action and others dismissing it as a PR stunt. "Very good, they're helping the weak and poor," a man who gave his name as Chu told French news agency AFP. A group of people applauded the army, shouting the Chinese slogan, "Hong Kong add oil." recasting a slogan made famous by pro-democracy protesters to support the government side. Lawmaker Claudia Mo called the sudden appearance of the army a "political PR show" and warned Hong Kongers to "stay alert." One Hong Kong Facebook user wrote, "Today they come to pick up rocks, tomorrow they will come to take our lives." Read more: Hong Kong: For the protesters, this is a kind of endgame Violence continues Under Article 14 of the city's Basic Law, Hong Kong's local government can seek help from PLA garrisons in the city in the event of a public order breakdown. However, a city spokesman said the intervention was a "voluntary community activity," according to Reuters. The Chinese army has appeared on Hong Kong streets only once since the 1997 handover, to clean up after a typhoon in 2018. The clean-up followed some of the worst violence ever seen in Hong Kong this year, after police clashed with protesters on Tuesday at the Chinese University of Hong Kong. On Saturday night, police fired tear gas while protesters threw petrol bombs, used slingshots, and fired arrows in clashes outside the city's Polytechnic University. Beijing has consistently warned Hong Kong demonstrators of a tough security response if violence continues. Dixon Sing, a political analyst, said the clean-up was "symbolic" because of the barracks closeness to the roadblocks. "I'm not quite sure if the PLA will extend their action similar to what we have seen to other areas ... We will have to wait and see," he said. Send  Facebook   Twitter   google+   Whatsapp   Tumblr   linkedin   stumble   Digg   reddit   Newsvine Permalink https://p.dw.com/p/3T8Pp mvb/bk (AFP, Reuters) Each evening at 1830 UTC, DW's editors send out a selection of the day's hard news and quality feature journalism. You can sign up to receive it directly here.