Water levels have not significantly abated in the Italian city of Venice after they reached the highest level in more 50 years late on Tuesday night. Italian President Giuseppe Conte is expected to announce a national state of emergency on Thursday over the unusually high water levels. DW's Giulia Saudelli said "tourists and camera crews are wading through the water." Water levels on Thursday reached around 130 centimeters (51 inches). Venetian mayor Luigi Brugnaro said on Thursday that the city was "on its knees" and unequivocally blamed climate change for the high water levels. "There's widespread devastation," he said. "In all likelihood the damage runs into the hundreds of millions of euros." Read more: Venice's cultural institutions hit hard by floods In a city of canals, high water levels cause chaos even far away from the lagoon. Beneath Venice's iconic Rialto Bridge, the Grand Canal burst its banks and made access difficult. The bridge is one of only four which spans Venice's largest canal, which is a transport route for many tourists and workers in the city. Powerful rainstorms hit northern Italy on November 12. A cyclone threatened the country and an exceptionally high tide reached the city. In Venice, high water levels are normal at this time of year and are traditionally referred to as "Acqua Alta" — high water. Popular tourist destination St Mark's Square flooded and made access difficult. The last high water on this scale was in 1966, when flood levels reached 194 cm (76 inches). In November, levels in St Mark's Square reached the second-highest level ever recorded, at 187 cm. People were forced to use precarious "catwalks." For the historic city, the flooding is an increasingly dangerous problem. The high water is an annual occurrence but rarely reaches levels this high. The mayor has appealed for government help, labeling the floods "disastrous." Fortunately, there have not yet been any major injuries or fatalities reported in connection with the flooding. Controversy continues in the city around underwater flood barriers which have been in development for several years. Plagued with cost overruns and corruption scandals, there are also concerns that the barriers could disturb the delicate ecosystem of the Venice lagoon. The flood barriers would aim to prevent scenes like this from happening. Mayor Luigi Brugnaro has been unequivocal in blaming climate change for the especially high water levels. He warned that even a few more centimeters of flooding could irreparably damage historical sites in the city. But with more heavy rains forecast, there is likely to be little let-up for the canal city in the coming weeks. Author: Elliot Douglas What has the prime minister promised? Italian newspaper Repubblica reported that Conte was also pledging financial aid to all Venetians in light of the high cost of damage done to property and potential losses of income from tourism. Despite the flooding, tourists still came out in droves to the famous historical city, with large number of tourists still in St Mark's Square. Conte also reaffirmed that the controversial semi-submersible barrier system, Moses, was on track to be ready by 2021. The project aims to prevent similar drastic floods from happening, but has been plagued by delays owing to funding irregularities and corruption. The so-called "Acqua Alta," or high water, is at its highest level in over 50 years, peaking at 1.87m. ed/aw (AFP, Reuters) Send  Facebook   Twitter   google+   Whatsapp   Tumblr   linkedin   stumble   Digg   reddit   Newsvine Permalink https://p.dw.com/p/3Syhs