Good week for: Rouwen Hennings, Robert Lewandowksi, Hansi Flick, Patrick Herrmann Bad week for: Jadon Sancho, Paderborn's survival hopes, Armin Veh, David Abraham The lowdown: Where else to start but the Klassiker. It was another brusing one for Borussia Dortmund, whose Allianz Arena goal difference in league games over the past five seasons is scored 2, conceded 24. Not a happy hunting ground. They were played off the park by a rampant Bayern Munich side, whose attack was once again spearheaded by the world's best striker, Robert Lewandowski. The Pole has now scored in 11 straight games, has 23 goals in all competitions this season, with 16 of those coming in the Bundesliga. A staggering record, and another heavy Klassiker win for Bayern. It wasn't a happy Klassiker for Jadon Sancho. Not only was he replaced after 37 minutes in a 4-0 defeat, but Lucien Favre confirmed after the game that the change was tactical. Sancho wasn't injured, as previously thought. That will fuel speculation that Sancho isn't seeing eye-to-eye with Favre and  others in the Dortmund hierarchy. Borussia Mönchengladbach fans are already seeking out the best tattoo parlor's for their "Deutsche Meister 2019/20" stamps after Marco Rose's side went four points clear at the top. A 3-1 win over Werder Bremen was secured thanks to a brace from Patrick Herrmann and a goal - followed by a late red card - for Ramy Bensebaini. The Foals have now won four of their last five matches. Freiburg, yes we said Freiburg, pulled level on points with Bayern in the Bundesliga. Christian Streich's side are occuplying the final Champions League spot after a 1-0 win Eintracht Frankfurt on Sunday which, in turth, had much to do with an early red card for Eintracht midfielder Gelson Fernandes. The real story, though, was the injury time melee which ensued after Streich was intentionally shoved to the floor by Eintracht captain David Abraham. Freiburg's bench sprang to the defense of their 54-year old coach and handbags were in full swing from both sides. Abraham was sent off, along with Freiburg sub Vincenzo Griefo. On the 30th anniversary of the fall of the Berlin Wall, Hertha assembled a wall across the field in the build-up of the visit of RB Leipzig, a poignant reminder of the history of the city. On the field, the hosts went ahead with a Maximilian Mittelstädt rocket, but failed to capitalize. Timo Werner's brace and a goal each for Marcel Sabitzer and Kevin Kampl made it a handsome win for the visitors. Robert Lewandowski scored his 15th and 16th Bundesliga goals of the season as Bayern Munich dished out another heavy defeat of Borussia Dortmund at the Allianz Arena. Lewandowski's header opened the scoring, and Serge Gnabry made it two shortly after the break. Lewandowski's second made it three, before a late Mats Hummels own goal compounded Dortmund's misery. Rouwen Hennings scored a hat-trick as Fortuna Düsseldorf fought back three times to secure a point against Schalke in one of the games of the season so far. Daniel Caligiuri, Ozan Kabak and Suat Serdar each scored for Schalke, but each time Hennings leveled for the visitors, who richly deserved their point in this six-goal thriller. Augsburg picked up a huge win in the battle of the two cellar dwellers, holding their nerve to win in Paderborn, who missed an early penalty. That moment in the seventh minute proved crucial, as Tomas Koubek saved from Klaus Gjasula. The winning goal came four minutes before half-time, courtesy of Philipp Max. Paderborn remain rooted to the bottom of the table, while Augsburg climb to 15th. Sebastian Andersson struck twice as Union Berlin beat struggling Mainz, despite a late rally by the hosts. Coming off the back of victory in the Berlin derby, Union took the lead through a Daniel Brosinksi own goal. Andersson added a second on the stroke of half-time and added another soon after the break. Karim Onisiwo and Brosinksi scored in the final 10 minutes, but Union held on. Referee Robert Kampka can hardly have been the toast of Cologne at full time in this one. The struggling hosts put up a fierce fight — a rarity so far this season — and took the lead in the first half. But Hoffenheim drew level, and were then awarded a VAR penalty deep into stoppage time. Jürgen Locadia converted. Cologne's notorious technological curse rolls on. The home side looked like the better team from the get-go, and it took Ramy Bensebaini 20 minutes to score the first for Marco Rose’s side. Patrick Herrmann added Gladbach’s second just two minutes afterwards, with the captain adding another one on the 59th minute. Leo Bittencourt’s consolation goal hardly changed much. Gladbach open a four-point lead on top of the Bundesliga table. Peter Bosz is known for his attacking tactics, but it was Leverkusen’s defence that made all the difference against Wolfsburg. It wasn’t the most brilliant of games, but goals through Karim Bellarabi (25’) and Paulinho (90’) were enough to secure the three points. Second win in a row for Leverkusen Eintracht Frankfurt's Gelson Fernandez saw the red card in the first half. But it took Freiburg until the 77th minute to capitalize. Nils Petersen’s accurate shot left keeper Rönnow no chance. Eintracht captain David Abraham was sent off before the final whistle for body-checking Freiburg coach Christian Streich, while Freiburg’s Vincenzo Grifo saw the red card for his reaction from the bench. A poignant afternoon in Berlin as the city celebrates 30 years since the fall of the Wall. Hertha Berlin's contributions to those celebrations was an impressive wall constructed from one side of the field to the other, running along the halfway line as the teams warmed up. It was a strong symbol, but unfortunately for Hertha their defense didn't prove as impenetrable. Despite taking the lead, Hertha shipped four goals as they came face-to-face with an RB Leipzig team in fine form. The game of the weekend was undoubtedly in Gelsenkirchen as Schalke and Fortuna Düsseldorf served up a six-goal thriller. The pattern of the game became familiar as three times the hosts led, but three times they were pegged back. An each time Fortuna leveled, it was through their star striker Rouwen Hennings, whose hat-trick brings him up to 9 league goals this season. Paderborn's return to the Bundesliga continues to be a slog. Not only did they miss a seventh-minute penalty, but they lost the big basement battle with Augsburg, who came out 1-0 winners. Paderborn have still only won once in the league this season, and anything other than a straight return to 2. Bundesliga looks remote right now. Defeat by Hoffenheim proved the final straw for Cologne, who fired their general manager Armin Veh straight after the game, with coach Achim Berierlozer getting the chop on Saturday afternoon. Berierlozer had been unable to get Cologne's season going, and second last in the table with only seven points on the board wasn't seen as acceptable. Their defeat was VAR-influenced, but that was of little comfort to Cologne. Bayer Leverkusen out-classed Wolfsburg to take all three points home from the Volkswagen Arena. The Werkself won 2-0, with Paulinho bagging his first Bundesliga goal in the 97th minute. Better late than never. The quotes: "He wasn't injured, he just wasn't playing well." — Lucien Favre on his decision to sub Jadon Sancho in the 37th minute of Der Klassiker. "The lads gave me everything. In training all week, they put the work in and you could see it on the pitch today." — A parting dig at Niko Kovac, for whom the squad was absolutely not giving everything, from interim Bayern coach Hansi Flick? The stats: — Robert Lewandowski has scored 16 Bundesliga goals this season, 26 in all competitions, and in each of his last 11 games. — Lewandowski has also scored more goals than Manchester United, AC Milan and Atletico Madrid. — Timo Werner is now the top scoring Timo in Bundesliga history. The fans: Bayern fans were in a nostalgic mood ahead of Der Klassiker, celebrating 50 years since the club claimed a first ever German double. 