The team that shot him to prominence ultimately proved to be Niko Kovac's demise, as the footballing gods demonstrated just how cruel their sense of humor is. After all, it was a 3-1 loss to Eintracht Frankfurt in the 2017 German Cup final that confirmed to Bayern Munich bosses that they had made the right call in handing Niko Kovac the most demanding coaching role in German football and a 5-1 defeat to the Eagles that convinced them to relieve him of it. The German record titleholders' biggest defeat in a decade barely scratches the surface of the problems that have arisen in light of recent events in Bavaria. It's first worth pointing out that Kovac deserves great credit for taking the reins at Bayern during a period of turbulent transition and guiding them to a domestic double. No one can deny him that achievement, but despite delivering the silverware demanded the doubts as to whether he could meet the extreme standards of the elite level never dissipated. Bar set high With Pep Guardiola, Carlo Ancelotti and Jupp Heynckes as his predecessors, the bar was set extremely high for the 48-year-old. But while the illustrious trio regularly talked fondly of their time at former clubs during their time in charge of Bayern, would any of them have referred to an opposing set of fans as "the best in the league," as Kovac did before the Frankfurt game? The answer is no, because statements like that aren't befitting of the role of Bayern head coach. Neither is undermining the status of a key player with great standing, as Kovac did when claiming that Thomas Müller would feature when there was a "personnel emergency." Thomas Müller struggled for game time under Kovac, a move that didn't go down particularly well in Munich Off the pitch, the club's hierarchy assembled before the press on multiple occasions to demand more respect for Kovac's approach and results. However, with reports of a political tug of war raging behind the scenes, their attempts did more to erode his credibility in the eyes of players and fans than they did to provide a firm foundation. Bayern had no choice On the pitch, you'd have to go back to the pre-Louis van Gaal era for the last time Bayern Munich looked this vulnerable and, while injuries have played their part, they can't shoulder all the responsibility. Since the 7-2 win over Tottenham in the Champions League, Bayern performances have been almost unrecognizable, littered with mistakes, defensive naivete and overly-reliant on moments of goalscoring ingenuity from Robert Lewandowski. No longer the all-conquering dominant force, the fact that none of Bayern's competitors were capitalizing appeared to be Kovac's only saving grace. In the end, though, the Croatian's actions rendered his position untenable and left Bayern with no grace left to give. Kovac's tenure was threatening to become divisive and, with the club's identity on the line during a time of intense transition, Bayern had no choice but to nullify the threat. Saturday's 5-1 loss to Eintracht Frankfurt was Bayern's heaviest since 2009 and left them four points off the pace in the Bundesliga, a league they've won for the last seven years. After the defeat, goalkeeper Manuel Neuer was scathing, saying the result had been coming and he expected a "turbulent" next few days at the club. He wasn't wrong. Thomas Müller was one of those who started the Frankfurt defeat as Kovac looked to re-integrate one of the totems of the Bavarian side. Müller, who hasn't scored in the league since last season, had made it clear he wasn't happy to have been relegated to a bit part role by the loan signing of Philippe Coutinho. Time will tell whether the new coach rates him. Bayern also have big problems at the other end of the pitch, having failed to keep a clean sheet in any of their last eight games. Those issues have been exacerbated since Niklas Süle picked up a season-ending injury last month. That led to a recall for an aging Jerome Boateng, sent off early on Saturday, a series of unconvincing makeshift options and questions about the sale of Mats Hummels. Like most Bayern coaches, Kovac has sometimes found himself a pawn in the political battles at the top of the club. The Croatian was considered the choice of president Uli Hoeness (left) and not a favorite of Karl-Heinz Rummenigge. A bizarre press conference last October where the pair and sporting director Hasan Salihamidzic attacked the media and did Kovac few favors in the public perception. The strangely public pursuit of Leroy Sane before this season begun ended when the Manchester City and Germany winger sustained a serious injury in the Community Shield, the curtain raiser to the English season. Lacking the statement signing that they wanted, the club moved for Croatia's Ivan Perisic on loan. Sane's signature was so highly sought because of the departures of Arjen Robben and Franck Ribery at the end of last season. The veteran wingers won it all with the club and left a significant hole in Bayern's attacking options and a shortage of top level experience. Kovac has been dealt a tougher hand than many of his predecessors in terms of the playing squad. Though Kovac eventually overhauled Borussia Dortmund to win the Bundesliga title before completing the domestic double, a humbling 3-1 home defeat to Jürgen Klopp's Liverpool in the Champions League last 16 suggested Kovac's side were some way from the top level. With domestic success expected, Europe is huge for Bayern but even a perfect record this season couldn't save Kovac. After a bllistering start to his Bayern reign comprising four straight league wins, Kovac hit a sticky patch between matchdays 6 and 11 last season. A 3-2 defeat to Bayern Munich on November 10 made it just seven points from six games as BVB flew in to a big early lead. Bayern would eventually overhaul their rivals but the skeptics were already starting to note his weaknesses. Author: Matt Pearson