If you have to travel to Munich's Allianz Arena, doing so with Bayern under an interim head coach and languishing in fourth in the Bundesliga table would seem as good a time as any. However, Borussia Dortmund's management insist that they shouldn't expect an easy ride on Saturday — not least because of the painful recent memories BVB have gathered in Munich. Sporting director Michael Zorc said ahead of the game that he was convinced of one thing: "The lads in Munich will pull themselves together for this game, regardless of who's coaching them. And we will have to hold our own. We failed to do that last year and in most recent years. This is the clear demand for our players," Zorc said. 'No balls, man! We played like little kids' Dortmund have lost all five of their last Bundesliga trips to Munich, with scores of 2-1, 5-1, 4-1, 6-0 and 5-0. Last season's 5-0 defeat was particularly painful, though. Dortmund went into the game in early April, with a two-point lead in the table. A win might have all-but sealed the title. Instead, Bayern dismantled their opponents, who conceded several extremely soft goals —  starting with a near-post header off a corner for Mats Hummels, and ending with an unmarked tap-in from point-blank range at the back post for Robert Lewandowski, even though there were five black-and-yellow shirts sharing the penalty area with him. Dan-Axel Zagadou's error to gift Lewandowski Bayern's second was one of the night's major howlers Footage from before and after that game featured heavily in the recent Amazon television series Inside Borussia Dortmund, with several players speaking candidly about their disappointment at such a key defeat. A winning mentality, or lack thereof, was a recurring theme. "I almost broke my hand at half time when I punched the door and tried to provoke a response from the lads," goalie Roman Bürki said. "But otherwise, it was deathly silent in the dressing room." One other player did make some noise at full time. Cameras caught a furious Julian Weigl returning to the dressing room, throwing down his jersey, and yelling, "No balls, man! We played like little kids." Zorc returned to precisely this subject in his comments on Thursday, picking up the "men against boys" motif and running with it. "We don't need to talk too much about tactics and the like. We must play football like grown men! We need to be men on Saturday on the pitch. That's what will prove decisive," Zorc said. At least Dortmund no longer have to worry about Mats Hummels (buried inside this scrum of celebrating players) It remained unclear on Thursday whether captain Marco Reus and Jadon Sancho would be available for Saturday's match. Reus is doubtful due to ankle problems, while Sancho's struggling with a thigh strain. Dortmund coach Lucien Favre indicated to reporters that a decision on whether to dress either or both wouldn't come until Friday at the earliest. Flick's focus on plugging leaks a saving grace for Dortmund? If Dortmund are seeking a silver lining, perhaps it can be found in Bayern's bid to reestablish defensive stability after the departure of Niko Kovac. Bayern ground out a workmanlike 2-0 win against Olmpiacos in the Champions League on Wednesday, laying particular focus on protecting Manuel Neuer's goal. They allowed their rank outsider opponents just three shots all night, but had to wait almost 70 minutes to score themselves. If this remains the focus for Hansi Flick as he seeks to steady the Bavarian ship, perhaps Dortmund's back line can expect a slightly easier ride than in recent years. Read more:  Whoever they are, Bayern Munich's new coach needs boardroom harmony Saturday's 5-1 loss to Eintracht Frankfurt was Bayern's heaviest since 2009 and left them four points off the pace in the Bundesliga, a league they've won for the last seven years. After the defeat, goalkeeper Manuel Neuer was scathing, saying the result had been coming and he expected a "turbulent" next few days at the club. He wasn't wrong. Thomas Müller was one of those who started the Frankfurt defeat as Kovac looked to re-integrate one of the totems of the Bavarian side. Müller, who hasn't scored in the league since last season, had made it clear he wasn't happy to have been relegated to a bit part role by the loan signing of Philippe Coutinho. Time will tell whether the new coach rates him. Bayern also have big problems at the other end of the pitch, having failed to keep a clean sheet in any of their last eight games. Those issues have been exacerbated since Niklas Süle picked up a season-ending injury last month. That led to a recall for an aging Jerome Boateng, sent off early on Saturday, a series of unconvincing makeshift options and questions about the sale of Mats Hummels. Like most Bayern coaches, Kovac has sometimes found himself a pawn in the political battles at the top of the club. The Croatian was considered the choice of president Uli Hoeness (left) and not a favorite of Karl-Heinz Rummenigge. A bizarre press conference last October where the pair and sporting director Hasan Salihamidzic attacked the media and did Kovac few favors in the public perception. The strangely public pursuit of Leroy Sane before this season begun ended when the Manchester City and Germany winger sustained a serious injury in the Community Shield, the curtain raiser to the English season. Lacking the statement signing that they wanted, the club moved for Croatia's Ivan Perisic on loan. Sane's signature was so highly sought because of the departures of Arjen Robben and Franck Ribery at the end of last season. The veteran wingers won it all with the club and left a significant hole in Bayern's attacking options and a shortage of top level experience. Kovac has been dealt a tougher hand than many of his predecessors in terms of the playing squad. Though Kovac eventually overhauled Borussia Dortmund to win the Bundesliga title before completing the domestic double, a humbling 3-1 home defeat to Jürgen Klopp's Liverpool in the Champions League last 16 suggested Kovac's side were some way from the top level. With domestic success expected, Europe is huge for Bayern but even a perfect record this season couldn't save Kovac. After a bllistering start to his Bayern reign comprising four straight league wins, Kovac hit a sticky patch between matchdays 6 and 11 last season. A 3-2 defeat to Bayern Munich on November 10 made it just seven points from six games as BVB flew in to a big early lead. Bayern would eventually overhaul their rivals but the skeptics were already starting to note his weaknesses. Author: Matt Pearson 