The state of Virginia has granted parole to a former German diplomat's son who is currently serving a life sentence in prison for the murder of his girlfriend's parents three decades ago, when he was 18. The office of Virginia Governor Ralph Northam said on Monday that the state parole board had voted to release Jens Söring, 53, and former girlfriend Elizabeth Haysom, 55, from prison. The former couple have both been held in prison for more than thirty years for crimes related to the murder of Haysom's parents, Nancy and Derek Haysom. Karle Denke murdered and cannibalized at least 42 people, mostly villagers, between 1903 and 1924 in his Münsterberg apartment in then Prussia (pictured). It is thought that he even sold the flesh of his victims at the Breslau (now Wroclaw, Poland) market as pork. A victim was able to escape and later police found cured human flesh in his home. Denke hung himself in his jail cell two days later. Fritz Haarmann is thought to have sexually assaulted, murdered, mutilated and dismembered at least 24 boys and young men between 1918 and 1924.The full extent of his crimes were revealed after 500 pieces of human bone, some with knife marks, were found by Hanover residents worried about the disappearance of children in the area. Haarmann, who was once a police informant, was beheaded in 1925. Karl Grossmann killed his victims and sold their meat on the black market and at his hotdog stand. After neighbors heard screaming, police burst into his home to find a dead young woman on his bed. It is unclear how many lives Grossmann took, but he is suspected of dismembering 23 women found nearby and up to 100 missing cases in Berlin. He hung himself in 1922 before receiving the death penalty. Friedrich Schumann was a locksmith who raped, murdered and stole from 1918 to 1920. After a confrontation with a local forester — whom he shot — Schumann was arrested and charged with the murder of six people and attempted murder of 11 others. He was sentenced to death six times. The night before his execution at aged 28, he admitted to killing 25 people, including his first victim — his cousin. Paul Ogorzow was convicted for 31 sexual assaults, the murder of eight women and attempted murder of six others in Nazi-era Berlin between 1940 and 1941. Ogorzow worked for the German commuter rail system and would threaten, stab or bludgeon his rape victims before sometimes throwing them off the moving train. He was sentenced to death and beheaded two days later. In 1946 and 1947, Rudolf Pleil worked as a border guard in the Harz Mountains and illegally trafficked mostly women from East to West Germany. For a while, he had two accomplices, who would help trap victims. Rudolf Pleil was convicted of killing a salesman and nine women but he claimed to have killed 25 people. Sentenced to life in prison in 1950, Pleil committed suicide eight years later. Joachim Gero Kroll was a serial killer, rapist, child molester and cannibal. Between 1955 and 1976 he murdered up to 14 people, mainly women and young girls. When he was arrested in 1976, human remains were packed in his refrigerator and he was in the process of cooking the arms and hands of a four-year-old girl he had just killed. Imprisoned for life in 1982, Kroll died of a heart attack in 1991. Fritz Honka was notorious for killing at least four women between 1970 and 1975. He strangled prostitutes in his apartment and cut up their corpses. Firefighters found hidden body parts in his apartment after a fire broke out while he was gone. Honka was sentenced to 15 years in a psychiatric institution. After his release in 1993, he lived in a retirement home until his death five years later. Werner Pinzner was a for-hire killer for pimps in Hamburg's red light district. He is thought to have killed between seven and 10 people. Pinzner gained nationwide fame in 1986 when he was brought to the Hamburg police department for interrogation with his wife and lawyer. He suddenly pulled out a gun and shot the investigating prosecutor before turning the gun on his wife and himself. A nurse from Cologne, Marianne Nölle killed patients in her care by poisoning them with an antipsychotic drug between 1984 and 1992. Police believe she actually killed 17 people and attempted a further 18 murders, but she was only convicted of killing seven patients. She has never confessed to any of her crimes and since 1993, Nölle has been serving a life sentence. Volker Eckert was a German trucker who murdered at least nine women, most of them between 2001 and 2006. According to police, there were probably four others. His first victim was a classmate whom he strangled aged 15. Most of his victims were prostitutes he picked up across Europe and he kept trophies like his victims' hair. Eckert hung himself in his cell during his trial in 2007. Stephan Letter is a former nurse responsible for the death of at least 29 patients by lethal injection at a Bavarian hospital between 2003 and 2004. Arrested for drug theft, Letter confessed to some of the killings, insisting that he was trying to relieve suffering. He is serving a life sentence and until recently, his acts were described as Germany's worst killing spree since World War II. Keen to impress colleagues with his life-saving skills, Niels Högel would inject patients with cardiovascular medication to induce heart failure or circulatory collapse. He was convicted of killing two people and was jailed for life in 2015. However, after a multi-year probe, investigators now believe the former nurse was responsible for 100 more deaths, making him Germany's most prolific killer. Söring is currently serving two lifelong sentences for their murder while Haysom is serving two consecutive 45-year sentences for being an accessory to the crimes. Parole board chair Adrianne Bennett said in statement, "The parole board has determined that releasing Jens Söring and Elizabeth Haysom...is appropriate because of their youth at the time of the offenses, their institutional adjustment and the length of their incarceration." Read more: Suicide or murder — what happened to 11-year-old Rabia? Söring, a German citizen, and Haysom, a Canadian citizen, will be handed over to US Immigration and Customs Enforcement officers and deported. They are prohibited from re-entering the US. Söring's lawyer Steven Rosenfield said he had not yet been notified of his client's release, but that Söring had been a model prisoner. Local media report that Söring will return to Germany. 'Diplomatic immunity' In 1985, Elizabeth Haysom's parents were found stabbed to death and nearly decapitated in the city of Lynchburg, Virginia. While not initially suspects, Haysom and her then-boyfriend Söring fled to London in 1986 once they fell under suspicion. There they were arrested and returned to the US. Söring initially admitted to the killings but later withdrew his confession and claimed Haysom convinced him to cover for her crimes. He said he thought that his status as the son of a diplomat would grant him immunity. Haysom testified against Söring, saying that she manipulated him into killing her parents, who were against her relationship with Söring. Governments call for his release Since withdrawing his confession, Söring has insisted upon his innocence. Recent DNA evidence seems to support his claim. Söring's previous 14 parole requests were all rejected, despite efforts by multiple Virginia governors and the German government to obtain his release. Transatlantic Coordinator for the German government Peter Beyer, who has twice visited Söring in prison, welcomed the decision. "At out last meeting this summer, I had the impression he was mentally and physically well, despite the fact that every day he lives the hard reality of life in a southern state prison, where gangs, drugs, and rape are part of daily life," said Beyer. Critics have called Söring's release insensitive to the family of the victims. But the parole board holds that he does not pose a safety risk and that his release and expulsion are "an enormous cost-benefit to the taxpayers of the Commonwealth of Virginia.” kp/se (AP, dpa, epd) Every evening, DW sends out a selection of the day's news and features. Sign up here.