The dog has long been humankind's most loyal friend and companion. The close relationship with mankind's favorite pet has been illustrated in art and in our cultural history in manifold ways. A major new exhibition at Munich's Bavarian National Museum (German: Bayerisches Nationalmuseum), "Loyal Friends - Dogs and People," illuminates the special relationship between humans and animals through high art and the culture of everyday life. Loans from international museums and collections, as well as little-known works sourced from the Bavarian museum, constitute a comprehensive puppy collection ranging from antiquity to the present day. Famed dog lovers such as David Bowie, Thomas Mann, Queen Elizabeth II, and Sisi, the storied Austrian Empress, are represented, as is a poodle diamond brooch worn by Grace Kelly, a taxidermy of the German shepherd Zorro, and the tuxedo worn by Sir Henry, Germany's most famous pug. Read more: Trump honors IS-fighting dog Conan at the White House The exhibition includes many genres — from an Egyptian dog mummy to medieval altar panels to a dog robot. The sections cover themes such as loyalty and friendship, servitude, status symbols, and even fantasy and erotica. The exhibition ultimately aims to reflect on our vision of humanity. Click through the picture gallery above to explore some of the 200 works on show. "Loyal Friends - Dogs and People" runs November 28, 2019 until April 19, 2020 at the Bayerisches Nationalmuseum. UK Prime Minister Boris Johnson's new dog moved into Downing Street this week, after being adopted from a pet shelter. The Jack Russell-cross pup's name is called Dilyn, which is Welsh for "follow" — a tip of the hat to the part of the UK where the 15-week-old puppy was born. Russian President Vladimir Putin was gifted an alabai puppy called Verney by Turkmenistan President Berdymukhammedov (l) in 2017. Putin is a well-known dog lover, but has been shown with a host of other creatures, from polar bears to Siberian tigers. "He knows that they are great for photo opportunities," political science professor Burdett Loomis once told the Washington Post. But another of Putin's dogs, the black lab Koni, worked against him in 2007. The Russian leader let the hound wander around during a meeting with German Chancellor Angela Merkel. "The dog does not bother you, does she? She's a friendly dog and I'm sure she will behave herself," Putin said during the talk. A true faux pas as the German chancellor is terrified of dogs after being bitten in 1995. A real pro at making the most of photographic moments is former US President Barack Obama. The charismatic leader grabbed people's attention at nearly any event, but the Obama family's dog, Bo, was also known to steal the show in the media. Former US President George W. Bush's terrier Barney was famous enough to have have his own page on the White House's website. US media often showed Barney (here, in a more somber image) racing across the White House lawn, with the former president smiling broadly as he tried to keep up with his pet. Former German Chancellor Gerhard Schröder, shown with his then wife and likewise politician Doris Schröder-Köpf, made for a pretty family back in 2003 along with border terrier Holly. Holly, once known as the "First Dog," was with the family for 14 years, but died of cancer in 2017, with Doris reporting the passing on Facebook. French President Emmanuel Macron is known to ease his woes through the comfort of his dog Nemo, shown here in 2017. Like Boris Johnson, Macron acquired his Labrador-Griffon cross dog from an animal shelter. The name is a tribute to Captain Nemo, commander of the Nautilus submarine in the Jules Verne classic "Twenty Thousand Leagues Under the Sea" — Macron is reportedly a fan of the book. Queen Elizabeth II is one of the most famous people in the world, but nearly equally famous are the dogs that surrounded her through much of her royal life. The corgi breed has always been dear to her heart, as the then Princess received her first Pembroke Welsh Corgi, Susan, on her 18th birthday. But the Queen (shown here in 1998) also had other dogs, including cocker spaniels and dorgis. Author: Louisa Schaefer