Bolivia's interim president said on Thursday the country's former leader, Evo Morales, cannot run in any prospective elections. Jeanine Anez, a Senate deputy leader who claimed the presidency earlier this week, told a news conference: "Evo Morales does not qualify to run for a fourth term." Read more: Bolivia crisis: 5 things to know She also criticized Mexico for allowing the former president to rally support in exile. "We have to let the Mexican government know that cannot be happening,'' said Anez, who says she wants to bring calm to Bolivia but has been accused of unfairly seizing power by Morales supporters. Anez is striving to restore stability to a deeply-divided nation that has been rocked by protests since an election in October, which was won by Morales but tainted by allegations of fraud. Send  Facebook   Twitter   google+   Whatsapp   Tumblr   linkedin   stumble   Digg   reddit   Newsvine Permalink https://p.dw.com/p/3SyCK Support for Morales Despite the accusations of electoral irregularities, and Anez's call for calm, Morales still holds strong backing in his homeland. Demonstrators flooded the streets Thursday, brandishing the national flag and waving the multicolor "Wiphala'' flag that represents indigenous peoples, in support of Morales. Meanwhile, protesters in the central city of Sacaba, were shouting: "Evo: Friend, the people are with you!'' Supporters of ex-President Evo Morales march in La Paz, Bolivia, with multicolored indigenous flags Morales said he will ask the United Nations and possibly Pope Francis to intervene in a bid to resolve the dispute. He spoke to news agency The Associated Press saying he still considers himself president because the Andean nation's Legislative Assembly has yet to recognize his resignation. The 60-year-old said: "If they haven't accepted or rejected it, I can say I am still president."  jsi/rt (Reuters, AP) Each evening at 1830 UTC, DW's editors send out a selection of the day's hard news and quality feature journalism. You can sign up to receive it directly here.