Scotland's government has warned Ireland that it will send patrol vessels this weekend to guard a 19-kilometer (12-mile) fishing zone around a tiny disputed islet in the Atlantic Ocean. Scotland said it would take the "enforcement action" after an increase in activity from Irish vessels around Rockall, an uninhabitable outcrop that the British government claimed 64 years ago. Scottish external affairs minister Fiona Hyslop wrote to her Irish counterpart on Friday warning that the country would protect its fishing zone against the "illegal" trawler activity around Rockall, which lies 420 kilometers (260 miles) off Scotland's Western Isles and Ireland's County Donegal coast. Read more: German pensioner quits big tour of Scotland after police 'harassment' Send  Facebook   Twitter   google+   Whatsapp   Tumblr   linkedin   stumble   Digg   reddit   Newsvine Permalink https://p.dw.com/p/3A4OI Ireland doesn't recognize Britain's claim to Rockall but has never sought sovereignty for itself. The government insists, however, that the waters around Rockall form part of Irish waters under the European Union's Common Fisheries Policy (CFP). 'No reason to exclude Irish trawlers' "Ireland's position has been strongly made that there is no basis for excluding Irish fishing vessels from the Rockall waters as they are legitimately pursuing EU fishing opportunities in these waters and have done so unhindered for decades," a statement from the Irish government said on Friday. Read more: Ireland votes to ease divorce laws, back united Ireland Ireland's Minister for Agriculture, Food and the Marine, Michael Creed, said although the government had tried to avoid a standoff with Scotland, he had "no option but to put our fishing industry on notice of the stated intention of the Scottish Government." The Scottish Fishermen's Federation, meanwhile, backed its government's proposed action. "The area is recognized in UK law as part of Scottish territorial waters and hosts multi-million-pound haddock, monkfish and squid fisheries that are hugely important to our fleet," Bertie Armstrong, chief executive of the SFF, said in a statement. Read more: Report shows stark effect Brexit will have on Irish economy, deal or no deal Send  Facebook   Twitter   google+   Whatsapp   Tumblr   linkedin   stumble   Digg   reddit   Newsvine Permalink https://p.dw.com/p/2nyGh Move emboldens Scottish fishermen "The Scottish Government is right to impose compliance, full stop. But at a time when we are moving towards independent Coastal State status it lays down a benchmark for the future," he added, referring to Britain's exit from the EU, which will see it operate outside the CFP. Fewer than 20 people have ever set foot on the isolated Atlantic outcrop, among them, the British navy, which hoisted the Union flag in 1955. In 1972, the British government declared Rockall part of Scotland. As Rockall cannot sustain human habitation or economic life, the United Nations Convention of the Law of the Sea (UNCLOS) allows the claimant to a territorial sea extending 12 nautical miles. . Mussel fishermen share many of the concerns about Britain's divorce from the European Union. They are also felt by many people who earn a living along the border between Northern Ireland and the Irish Republic. Many fishermen have an additional headache on top of the prospect of tariffs and trade disruption: the waters in which they fish are the subject of a territorial row that stretches back decades. Carlingford Lough is a waterway that forms part of the border between the county of Down in British-run Northern Ireland and Louth in EU member Ireland. In this picture Northern Ireland is seen on the left and the Republic of Ireland on the right with Carlingford Lough in the middle. Irish Prime Minister Enda Kenny has said it is of "vital national interest" that no physical barrier or customs controls be put back on the border, winning initial EU backing. But the fishermen of Carlingford Lough fear their concerns will not be a priority. Fisherman MacDonald explains: "No one can define who owns what. Neither of the two governments have defined the border here and nobody can say where is the North and where is the South. We're stuck in the middle and nobody wants to talk to us about it." In fact, talks are ongoing between the Irish and British governments relating to the jurisdiction of Carlingford Lough and the unresolved ownership of Lough Foyle, which lies to the west between Donegal and Derry. The Loughs Agency, a cross-border body overseeing both areas, said that in a statement. Mussel fisherman Brian Cunningham, seen here with his skipper Shay Fitzpatrick, explains, that most boats based in Northern Ireland normally fish off the coast in the Republic of Ireland. He thus fears that Brexit could lead to a doubling up of paperwork such as trawler registrations. This adds costs that would hurt the industry. "When Brexit comes, what's going to happen? We're going to have to jump through hoops that by the time the paper work is sorted out our mussels will be dead. Mussels are landed live, processed live and sold live to the customer. It's a live animal, so it's going to be very, very difficult," Cunningham says. Author: Nadine Berghausen Each evening at 1830 UTC, DW's editors send out a selection of the day's hard news and quality feature journalism. You can sign up to receive it directly here.