Greenpeace activists said Sunday they had blocked a BP oil rig from leaving port in Inverness. The rig was set to be installed off the coast of northern Scotland as part of the oil giant's North Sea exploration program. But a team of activists in boats drew up alongside the rig to prevent it from leaving Cromarty Firth, Greenpeace said in a statement. The environmentalists demanded that BP, one of the world's biggest energy companies, end drilling new wells and invest only in renewable energy or cease operations and return cash to its investors. They said they are prepared to stay on the rig "for days" if necessary. Read more: Plastic pollution: Do beach cleanups really make a difference? "This rig, and around 30 million barrels it seeks to drill, are a sure a sign that BP are committed to business as usual, fueling a climate emergency that threatens millions of lives and the future of the living world," a Greenpeace activist from Scotland only identified as Jo said. BP called protest was "irresponsible" and said that it was working with Transocean, the rig's owner and operator, and other authorities to resolve the situation. "While we recognize the right for peaceful protest, the actions of this group may put themselves and others unnecessarily at risk," the company said in a statement. Greta Thunberg, the leading figure in the climate activism movement "Fridays for Future," is up to her neck in water in this drawing by Austrian Marian Kamensky: Her "school strike for the climate" (as it says in Swedish on the poster) kicked off too late. Tourism at any cost? The couple is taking a selfie in front of the sunset, but is apparently oblivious to the fact that they're standing on the mountain of trash. Many of the illustrations in the exhibition address the plastic garbage that has contaminated the world's oceans. Here, the Earth holds its face in its hands in a moment of desperation. The environmental crisis will also have consequences on migration. In this sharp-tongued cartoon, a mother calls to her children in the Mediterranean Sea: "Come out right now! You're not supposed to play in a cemetery!" It brings to mind the image of the drowned three-year-old refugee Alan Kurdi, as well as the thousands of migrants who've lost their lives at the world's deadliest sea crossing. This illustration by Burkinabé artist Damien Glez reflects on the fate of thousands upon thousands of refugees and migrants: The supposed better life elsewhere has its owns risks. Rather than a bowl full of water, this girl tries to imbibe dried-out soil. Hungarian illustrator Gergely Bacsa calls attention to the water shortage in many countries. Author: Silke Wünsch (als) dv/rt (dpa, Reuters) Every evening, DW's editors send out a selection of the day's hard news and quality feature journalism. You can sign up to receive it directly here.