Chinese President Xi Jinping and US President Donald Trump on Saturday agreed to resume trade talks, following a high-stakes meeting on the sidelines of the G20 summit in the Japanese city of Osaka. Trump said his meeting with Xi was "excellent" and that "we're right back on track," adding that the US was "going to work with China where we left off." Washington has agreed not to slap new tariffs on Chinese exports "for at least the time being," while China will buy more US agricultural products, Trump confirmed at a news conference, corroborating earlier reports from China. The planned levies on an additional $300 billion (€263 billion) worth of Chinese goods would have effectively extended tariffs to everything China exports to the US. Many leaders had been eagerly watching to see if the pair could strike an agreement to ease tensions and end a trade war between their countries. Read more: How much damage are Trump's tariffs doing to the Chinese economy? Send  Facebook   Twitter   google+   Whatsapp   Tumblr   linkedin   stumble   Digg   reddit   Newsvine Permalink https://p.dw.com/p/3LJDB 'Mutual respect' needed In a Foreign Ministry statement following the lengthy talks, Xi told Trump he hoped the US could treat Chinese companies fairly. "China is sincere about continuing negotiations with the United States ... but negotiations should be equal and show mutual respect," the Foreign Ministry quoted Xi as saying. The US president has already heaped taxes on $200 billion (€176 billion) of Chinese imports. Beijing has retaliated by slapping its own tariffs on imports from the US. Read more: G20 summit 2019: Key questions and answers on Day 1 The first round of tariffs in 2018 were on all imported washing machines and solar panels — not just those from China. A study by economists from the Federal Reserve Bank of New York, Columbia University, and Princeton University found that the burden of Trump's tariffs — including taxes on steel, aluminum, solar panels falls entirely on US consumers and businesses who buy imported products. On Friday May 10, 2019 President Donald Trump imposed sanctions on $200 billion (€178 billion) worth of Chinese goods. The move rasied tariffs from 10% to 25% on a range of consumer products, including cell phone, computers and toys. China's Commerce Ministry said it "deeply regrets" the US decision. In April 2019, the United States said it wanted to put tariffs on $11.2 billion worth of goods from the EU. The list includes helicopters and aircraft from Airbus as well as European exports like: famous cheeses like Stilton, Roquefort and Gouda, wines and oysters, ceramics, knives and pajamas. The EU imposed import duties of 25% on a $2.8 billion range of imports from the United States in retaliation for US tariffs on European steel and aluminum. Targeted US products include Harley-Davidson motorcycles, bourbon, peanuts, blue jeans, steel and aluminum. May 17, 2019 is the deadline for President Trump to decide on imposing tariffs on vehicle imports from the EU. According to diplomats, Germany, whose exports of cars and parts to the United States are more than half the EU total, wants to press ahead with talks to ward off tariffs on automakers Volkswagen, Mercedes and BMW. India, the world's biggest buyer of US almonds, on June 21, 2018 raised import duties on the nuts by 20% and increased tariffs on a range of other farm products and US iron and steel, in retaliation for US tariffs on Indian steel. Trump said last month that he would end preferential trade treatment for India, which would result in US tariffs on up to $5.6 billion of imports from India. Mexico on June 5, 2018 imposed tariffs of up to 25% on American steel, pork, cheese, apples, potatoes and bourbon, in retaliation for US tariffs on Mexican metals. While to the north, Canada on July 1 imposed tariffs on $12.6 billion worth of U.S. goods, including steel, aluminum, coffee, ketchup and bourbon whiskey in retaliation for US tariffs on Canadian steel and aluminum. Trump and Xi to discuss Huawei The dispute has already disrupted global supply chains and markets. Talks between US and Chinese officials over the tit-for-tat measures collapsed last month after 11 rounds of negotiations. The trade dispute between China and the US includes a feud over Chinese technology firm Huawei, with Beijing fearing it could threaten the company's global growth. The Trump administration has declared Huawei a security threat, effectively banning US companies from doing business with it. The US has encouraged its allies to shun the firm in their 5G networks on security grounds, and has also suggested it could be a factor in a trade deal. Trump said on Saturday that he had discussed Huawei with Xi and that resolving the issue would come later. US companies would still be able to sell components to Huawei, he added. Send  Facebook   Twitter   google+   Whatsapp   Tumblr   linkedin   stumble   Digg   reddit   Newsvine Permalink https://p.dw.com/p/3JUEr law,nm/ng (Reuters, AP, AFP) DW sends a daily selection of hard news and quality feature journalism. Sign up here.