Moldova plunged deeper into crisis on Sunday after a court temporarily relieved President Igor Dodon of his duties to allow a stand-in to call a snap election. Former prime minister Pavel Filip, who took on the role, immediately announced a fresh election for September, effectively extending months of political chaos. The first election in February produced a hung parliament,  prompting months of negotiations between the main parties. On Saturday, Dodon's Russian-backed Socialist party had announced it was forming a coalition with the pro-European Union ACUM bloc. The unlikely alliance was designed to keep the Democratic Party of Moldova, run by tycoon Vladimir Plahotniuc, out of power. Read more: Transnistria: Russia's satellite state an open wound in Eastern Europe Tanya moved to Italy five years ago where she works as a caregiver for the elderly and earns about 850 euros ($960) a month. But her three daughters — Karolina, Sabrina and Olga — were left behind in Moldova. They were 8, 9 and 12 years old, respectively, when she left. The girls initially lived alone at first, even though the oldest was only 12 years old. After a time, they began living with various people, to whom their mother regularly sent money. Now the eldest daughter, Olga, is finishing high school in Chisinau, while Sabrina and Karolina have joined their mother in Italy. For the past seven years, Katalina's parents have barely been home. Her parents found jobs in Moscow and later moved to Italy after receiving work visas. Katalina's grandmother lived in a different village, but she eventually moved in with Katalina and her brother, Victor, to look after them. Ottilia was barely a year old when her parents left Moldova. Her mother and father paid 4,000 euros each to get into Italy without proper documents. The girl didn't see them for five years and lived with her grandmother, who she called "mom." A year ago, Ottilia's parents managed to get a residence permit in Italy and brought their daughter to live with them. Lilia moved to the West with her husband eight years ago. The couple had to work hard to repay the debt they took on to pay for the illegal border-crossing. Their daughters Nadia and Alina were 9 and 6 at the time. Lilia sent parcels to her children three times a month. The family is reunited now, but it has come at a high price — the "visas" for the children cost 1,500 euros each. German photographer Andrea Diefenbach tells the story of Moldovan children in her book "Country without parents," published in German by Kehrer-Verlag. Author: Efim Schuhmann and Flora Murphy The coalition was finalized only after the Constitutional Court ruled Friday that new elections should be held. The court's latest ruling, allowed Filip — who backs closer integration with the European Union — to dissolve parliament and call a snap vote for September 6. Call for external support After being forced aside, Dodon called on Russia or the European Union to intervene in the country's political crisis, saying that Moldova's top court was not politically independent. "We have no choice but to appeal to the international community ... for it to act as a moderator in the process of peaceful handover of power," he said. However, the Constitutional Court has already suspended Dodon several times in the last two years when he refused to back laws or appoint ministers. Denis Cenusa, a Moldovan political researcher at Germany's Justus-Liebig-University Giessen, told DW that the Socialist-ACUM coalition, led by Dodon, would now struggle to proceed without "external legitimacy and the loyalty of the state institutions." Meanwhile, more than 10,000 supporters of the Democratic Party held a rally in the center of the capital Chisinau on Sunday, attended by Filip. The party bussed in large numbers of people amid a heavy police presence. Read more: Facebook deletes 168 suspect accounts in Moldova Amid signs of trouble brewing on Saturday, the EU's spokeswoman called for "calm and restraint," and for Moldova to respect the rule of law and democracy. Russia urged parties to avoid destabilization. Uncertainty to last months longer A prolonged crisis threatens more instability in one of Europe's smallest and poorest nations of 3.5 million people, where entrenched corruption and low living standards have pushed many citizens to emigrate to Russia or wealthier European countries. Send  Facebook   Twitter   google+   Whatsapp   Tumblr   linkedin   stumble   Digg   reddit   Newsvine Permalink https://p.dw.com/p/3DdvM Moldova has been dogged by political instability ever since a scandal known as the "theft of the century" emerged in 2014-2015 in which $1 billion, around an eighth of its economic output, was stolen from three banks. The tiny ex-Soviet republic is squeezed between Ukraine and EU member Romania. Politically divided, some of its voters favor closer ties with the EU, while others prefer closer ties to Russia. mm/rc (AFP, DPA, Reuters) Each evening at 1830 UTC, DW's editors send out a selection of the day's hard news and quality feature journalism. You can sign up to receive it directly here.