German 10-year government bond yields have fallen to an all-time low as investors scrambled to buy the safe haven asset amid worsening global economic outlook. The 10-year Bund yields touched a fresh record low of -0.219% on Monday. Portuguese and Spanish bonds also touched new all-time lows, while across the Atlantic US Treasury yields fell to their lowest point since 2017. Government bond yields, which fall when bond prices rise, have been tumbling in many countries with investors fleeing riskier assets due to escalating trade conflicts between the US and its major trading partners. "Investors are looking for safe assets in an uncertain environment," Holger Schmieding, the chief economist at Berenberg Bank, told DW. "The main factors pulling down yields are persistently low inflation, global trade tensions and mounting expectations that the US Federal Reserve may cut rates in September." Trade spat concerns Fears of a full-blown trade conflict have risen in the past month with trade talks between the US and China hitting a roadblock and the two sides returning to tit-for-tat tariffs. US President Donald Trump's administration has also raised stakes in the dispute by blacklisting Chinese telecom behemoth Huawei. Trump has also threatened to impose a 5% tariff on imports from Mexico, which could be gradually increased to 25%, unless it stopped immigration into the US. Washington is set to end preferential trade treatment for India, starting June 5. Growing uncertainty in the eurozone, fueled by sluggish growth in its biggest economy, Germany, is also weighing on bond yields. The German economy grew by 0.4% in the first quarter, following a six-month period of no growth. A protracted trade conflict between the US and China could be devastating for Germany, which derives nearly half of its Gross Domestic Product (GDP) from exports, a significant chunk of which go to the US and China. Send  Facebook   Twitter   google+   Whatsapp   Tumblr   linkedin   stumble   Digg   reddit   Newsvine Permalink https://p.dw.com/p/3JWaz German bond appeal The German government Bund is seen as a safe haven for investors, especially in the eurozone, where it enjoys the same trust the US government debt enjoys globally. In March, Germany sold 10-year government bonds with a negative return for the first time since October 2016, underscoring a growing demand for the safe asset amid economic uncertainty and challenging market conditions. While for the German government, it means that it's getting paid to borrow, for small investors it means a loss of opportunity to earn some interest on their savings. Low returns on bonds also depress the interest rate on savings deposits. The negative yield implies that if investors choose to hold on to the debt bought during the March auction till it matures, then they are guaranteed to take a loss. But investors who are dashing to buy these bonds are pinning their hopes on the increasing demand for the safe haven assets. "Many are hoping that prices for Bunds may rise further, offsetting the negative yield," Schmieding said. Read more: China retaliatory tariffs on US goods come into force Recession fears A government, usually, pays more to borrow for 10 years than for five or two years or even three months to compensate the investors for risking their money for a longer period of time and to account for a rise in prices. But sometimes short-term debt becomes more expensive due to a higher yield than on the long-term one. This causes the usual upward yield curve to slope downward. This inversion of the US yield curve has in the past been an accurate forecaster of recession. The US yield curve has inverted once again. The 10-year government bond yields have fallen below the return on 3-month Treasury bill. On Monday, the German yield spread — the gap between two- and 10-year yields — was at its narrowest since August 2016, underscoring deteriorating economic sentiment. "The bond market is signaling a rising risk that the industrial slowdown in the Western world may deepen and lengthen," Schmieding said. "Markets are not yet signaling a genuine recession risk." Robust domestic consumption, strong wage growth and a growing construction sector also belie recession concerns in Germany. While the country's manufacturing sector is feeling the heat of trade uncertainties, the service sector is still expanding. "It (negative bond yield) is more a safe haven argument than a signal for recession," Timo Klein, principal economist at IHS Markit, told DW. "It's not a situation where people should start worrying about losing their jobs." The first round of tariffs in 2018 were on all imported washing machines and solar panels — not just those from China. A study by economists from the Federal Reserve Bank of New York, Columbia University, and Princeton University found that the burden of Trump's tariffs — including taxes on steel, aluminum, solar panels falls entirely on US consumers and businesses who buy imported products. On Friday May 10, 2019 President Donald Trump imposed sanctions on $200 billion (€178 billion) worth of Chinese goods. The move rasied tariffs from 10% to 25% on a range of consumer products, including cell phone, computers and toys. China's Commerce Ministry said it "deeply regrets" the US decision. In April 2019, the United States said it wanted to put tariffs on $11.2 billion worth of goods from the EU. The list includes helicopters and aircraft from Airbus as well as European exports like: famous cheeses like Stilton, Roquefort and Gouda, wines and oysters, ceramics, knives and pajamas. The EU imposed import duties of 25% on a $2.8 billion range of imports from the United States in retaliation for US tariffs on European steel and aluminum. Targeted US products include Harley-Davidson motorcycles, bourbon, peanuts, blue jeans, steel and aluminum. May 17, 2019 is the deadline for President Trump to decide on imposing tariffs on vehicle imports from the EU. According to diplomats, Germany, whose exports of cars and parts to the United States are more than half the EU total, wants to press ahead with talks to ward off tariffs on automakers Volkswagen, Mercedes and BMW. India, the world's biggest buyer of US almonds, on June 21, 2018 raised import duties on the nuts by 20% and increased tariffs on a range of other farm products and US iron and steel, in retaliation for US tariffs on Indian steel. Trump said last month that he would end preferential trade treatment for India, which would result in US tariffs on up to $5.6 billion of imports from India. Mexico on June 5, 2018 imposed tariffs of up to 25% on American steel, pork, cheese, apples, potatoes and bourbon, in retaliation for US tariffs on Mexican metals. While to the north, Canada on July 1 imposed tariffs on $12.6 billion worth of U.S. goods, including steel, aluminum, coffee, ketchup and bourbon whiskey in retaliation for US tariffs on Canadian steel and aluminum.