The "Fernsehturm" (television tower) with its height of 368 meters (1,207 ft) is Germany's tallest structure. On a clear day, the viewing platform offers visibility of up to 40 kilometers (24 miles). The floor above the visitor platform is where a revolving restaurant is located, which rotates once every 30 minutes. An island with five museums, surrounded by the river Spree - the "Museumsinsel" was named a World Heritage Site by UNESCO in 1999. Here you can admire art treasures from around the world spanning from a bust of Egyptian queen Nefertiti to the ancient Greek Pergamon Altar. Berlin actually boasts 175 museums in total and some 300 art galleries, so deciding which ones to visit is a real challenge. Every February Berlin rolls out the red carpet as movie stars descend on the city. Since 1951, the Berlin Film Festival, known as the Berlinale, has been one of the world's leading festivals. Movie stars love Berlin, even when there isn't a film festival, like George Clooney. Cosmopolitan, richly colored and with a zest for life - this is how Berlin presents itself during the Carnival of Cultures festival. Some 190 nationalities call the city their home. And every May they all - new arrivals and established Berliners together - celebrate what is probably the best street party in Berlin. The Holocaust Memorial, consisting of 2,711 concrete slabs to commemorate the six million European Jews who were killed by Nazi Germany, is the most visited memorial in Berlin. Other memorials include those dedicated to the Allied forces that liberated Berlin at the end of the Second World War, those killed trying to escape over the Berlin Wall and to the heroes of the Berlin airlift. 30 years ago, on November 9th, 1989, the Berlin Wall fell. The Berliners still view their reunified city as a gift. The Brandenburg Gate stood in no-man's-land for nearly three decades. It has become a worldwide symbol of the hope that division and separation can ultimately be overcome. Since German unification in 1990 the building cranes haven't stopped: the Potsdamer Platz public square was reconstructed, the Reichstag parliament building was given its dome, and the government quarter was built. The City Palace is due to be completed in 2019. Though no one yet knows if the new, very delayed airport in Schönefeld will be open by 2020. There are over 2,500 parks in Berlin, but the New York Times named the small "Prinzessinnengarten" as one of the city’s loveliest green spaces. This former wasteland in the Kreuzberg district has been turned into an organic garden in which over 500 types of vegetables are grown, cared for by hundreds of local volunteers. This is a community project, which has become a tourist attraction. Berlin's nightlife, known as one of the most exciting in the world, offers something for every taste, from indie rock, via hip hop to house music. Some of the world's best DJs spin vinyl at clubs like Berghain or Watergate. Many come to Berlin just for this - they get on a flight to the city on a Friday evening, then party all weekend before heading home. Nearly 100,000 hounds live here, making Berlin the dog capital of Germany. But when Berliners say they're "all heart with a bark" they are not referring to their dogs but themselves. The Berlin people are not known for being friendly, rather for being brusque, a mild form of rudeness known locally as Berliner Schnauze - or Berlin snout. But this verbal bark and growl tends to hide a big heart. Author: Kerstin Schmidt Berlin's attractiveness remains unbroken. In 2018, 13.5 million visitors came to the German capital — three times more tourists than Berlin's population. There are many good reasons to visit Berlin. Women's Places in Berlin Berlin is the only German federal state in which International Women's Day is a public holiday. The capital can also be explored from a female perspective 365 days a year. Nicole Frölich, presenter of the DW travel magazine Check-in, even found this to be a completely new experience. Here are her tips. Send  Facebook   Twitter   google+   Whatsapp   Tumblr   linkedin   stumble   Digg   reddit   Newsvine Permalink https://p.dw.com/p/3EdXe Modern architecture The world-famous art school for architecture and design Bauhaus celebrates its 100th birthday in 2019. How did Bauhaus influence architecture in the capital? Check-in presenter Nicole Frölich on the tracks of Walter Gropius, Mies van der Rohe and Co. Send  Facebook   Twitter   google+   Whatsapp   Tumblr   linkedin   stumble   Digg   reddit   Newsvine Permalink https://p.dw.com/p/36PfA Old National Gallery In contrast to Bauhaus architecture, the Old National Gallery on Berlin's Museum Island was built in the style of an ancient temple. Its rooms display the entire spectrum of 19th century German art and the beginnings of modernism, with masterpieces such as "The Monk by the Sea," by the Romantic painter Caspar David Friedrich. Send  Facebook   Twitter   google+   Whatsapp   Tumblr   linkedin   stumble   Digg   reddit   Newsvine Permalink https://p.dw.com/p/2ngLa From Reichstag to Bundestag A visit to the glass dome of the Reichstag building is an absolute must for many Berlin tourists! But the building also reflects like no other the eventful history of Germany, from the Empire to the present day. Whether relaxing, demonstrating or guerrilla knitting (photo), the lawn in front of the Reichstag provides plenty of room for ideas and signals to the elected members of parliament who shape German politics. Since 1999, the Reichstag Building in the center of Berlin has been the seat of the German Bundestag. The Reichstag dome, created by celebrated architect Sir Norman Foster, is a must-see for Berlin tourists. At the top, the view from a height of 40 meters (about 130 feet) stretches over the government quarter and Brandenburg Gate. The glass dome was the express wish of the Bundestag. The plenary hall sits just below, symbolically allowing the people to monitor their members of parliament. The Reichstag has stood on the banks of the Spree since 1894. Architect Paul Wallot created this first German parliament building when there was still a monarchy: the emperor ruled, and deputies in parliament — the Reichstag — debated. At the behest of parliamentarians, the inscription "Dem deutschen Volke" ("For the German People") was emblazoned on the side of the building in 1916. The second window balcony to the left of the main portal became the real cradle of parliamentary democracy on November 9, 1918: it was here that Social Democrat politician Philipp Scheidemann proclaimed the republic when the German Empire collapsed. The Reichstag Building burned down on February 27-28, 1933. Then Reich Chancellor Adolf Hitler instrumentalized the fire to impose the Nazi dictatorship with terror and violence. Communist politician Marinus van der Lubbe was convicted of arson. From then on, the Reichstag Building stood empty. Only parts of the cellar were used by the Charite Clinic during World War II as a maternity ward. From afar, the row of upright, black cast-iron slabs in front of the Reichstag Building are reminiscent of the narrow grave slabs of Jewish cemeteries. If you take a closer look, Dieter Appelt's artwork reveals the names, dates and places of death of those Reichstag deputies who were murdered by the Nazis between 1933 and 1945. The Reichstag is not only a symbol for the beginning, but also for the end of Nazi rule. Autographs and messages from Soviet soldiers who occupied the Reichstag on May 2, 1945 are still on the walls. As a sign of victory, they hoisted the red flag on the roof of the Reichstag. This marked the end of World War II in Berlin. This speech by Berlin Mayor Ernst Reuter in front of the ruins of the Reichstag Building, destroyed in the war, moved people. In 1948, Reuter appealed to the world not to surrender West Berlin to the Soviet Union. And he impressed the occupying Allied powers US, Great Britain and France. The result: the Berlin Airlift, which supplied West Berlin by plane for over a year. When the Berlin Wall went up in 1961, the Reichstag was located in West Berlin, right on the border. Just behind, a tarmac strip now marks the course of the wall. To the south, the Spree River formed the second border to East Berlin. People repeatedly used the river to try to flee to the West. Since the 1970s, white crosses near the Reichstag have been a reminder of those who died in the attempt. Following the opening of the Berlin Wall on November 9, 1989, the parliament building was once again in the center of Berlin. Four months later, excavators arrived to demolish the wall at the Reichstag. From October 2 to 3, 1990, hundreds of thousands of people euphorically celebrated German reunification in front of the Reichstag Building. Ninety climbers, 100,000 square meters of silvery tarpaulins and 5 million enchanted visitors — the wrapping of the Reichstag Building in the summer of 1995 is considered the most spectacular work by artist couple Christo and Jeanne-Claude. From then on everything seemed possible, including the choice to once again make the Reichstag the seat of a democratically elected German parliament. During a four-year conversion period, architect Norman Foster gave the Reichstag Building not only a modern interior, but also its spectacular dome. The Reichstag has been Germany's official seat of parliament since September 1999. Here, members of parliament discuss and decide on the political future of Germany in the presence of thousands of visitors in the upper galleries. Author: Frederike Müller Landmark Brandenburg Gate Unforgotten are the images from the night of November 9, 1989, when East and West Berliners embraced each other on the Berlin Wall in front of the Brandenburg Gate. 30 years after the fall of the Berlin Wall, the famous gate is the symbol of the division and reunification of Germany — and one of the most photographed sights in Berlin. Send  Facebook   Twitter   google+   Whatsapp   Tumblr   linkedin   stumble   Digg   reddit   Newsvine Permalink https://p.dw.com/p/2kRId Highlights in a 360-degree video From the Reichstag building to the Brandenburg Gate; from Museum Island to Alexanderplatz: the largest and loveliest squares in the heart of Berlin. Use the mouse on your computer or your finger on your smartphone to choose what you want to see. Click on the video and drag the image sections wherever you want. If you have VR glasses, you can watch the video in virtual reality. Your trip to Germany Are you looking for recommendations for your visit to Germany? We've got them: Tips for Germany — state by state.