The race to become Britain's next prime minister was rocked on Saturday as the two contenders prepared to launch their rival head-to-head campaigns. News that police visited the home of runaway favorite Boris Johnson was splashed across newspaper front pages, raising questions about whether it would affect his prime ministerial hopes. Read more: Crowned, defined and destroyed by Brexit, UK PM Theresa May resigns The police visit was initially reported by the Guardian newspaper, which said officers were called to the home of Johnson and his partner, Carrie Symonds, in South London early on Friday. A neighbor told the paper they heard a woman screaming, followed by "slamming and banging" and shouting between Johnson and Symonds. The newspaper said it had obtained a recording of the incident. Boris Johnson making a campaign speech London's Metropolitan Police confirmed that officers had been to the address after being alerted by a phone call. "The caller was concerned for the welfare of a female neighbor," the police said in a statement. Police attended and spoke to all occupants of the address, who were all safe and well." "There were no offences or concerns apparent to the officers and there was no cause for police action." It was unclear whether the news would have any impact on the Johnson's campaign. According to polling of Conservative Party members who will decide the contest, the former foreign secretary appears to have an unassailable lead despite a series of scandals over his personal behavior, and attention to detail. Johnson is pitched against his successor at the Foreign and Commonwealth Office, Jeremy Hunt, after a string of votes by Conservative members of parliament to whittle down a broad field of contenders from 10 to just two. The decision on which one will lead the UK as it approaches the looming Brexit deadline of October 31 will be made by some 160,000 Conservative Party members. Hunt and Johnson appeared in the central English city of Birmingham on Saturday, for the first of 16 "hustings" in which candidates field questions from the membership. When asked about the police visit, Johnson said he didn't believe people were interested."I don't think (audience members) want to hear about that kind of thing, unless I'm wrong," Johnson said. "I think what they want to hear is what my plans are for the country and for my party." With arch-Brexiter Nigel Farage's new Brexit Party outdoing the Conservatives in electoral polls, Johnson is viewed as the best hope to win back the Tories' euroskeptic core vote. After a shrill referendum campaign, nearly 52 percent of British voters opted to leave the EU on June 23. Polls had shown a close race before the vote with a slight lead for those favoring remaining in the EU. Conservative British Prime Minister David Cameron, who had campaigned for Britain to stay, acknowledged the "will of the British people" and resigned the following morning. Former Home Secretary Theresa May replaced David Cameron as prime minister on July 11 and promised the country that "Brexit means Brexit." May had quietly supported the Remain campaign before the referendum. She did not initially say when her government would trigger Article 50 of the EU treaty to start the two-year talks leading to Britain's formal exit. May eventually signed a diplomatic letter over six months later on March 29, 2017 to trigger Article 50. Hours later, Britain's ambassador to the EU, Tim Barrow, handed the note to European Council President Donald Tusk. Britain's exit was officially set for March 29, 2019. Tusk ended his brief statement on the decision with: "We already miss you. Thank you and goodbye." British Brexit Secretary David Davis and the EU's chief negotiator, Michel Barnier, kicked off talks in Brussels on June 19. The first round ended with Britain reluctantly agreeing to follow the EU's timeline for the rest of the negotiations. The timeline split talks into two phases. The first would settle the terms of Britain's exit, and the second the terms of the EU-UK relationship post-Brexit. The second round of talks in mid-July began with an unflattering photo of a seemingly unprepared British team. It and subsequent rounds ended with little progress on three phase one issues: How much Britain still needed to pay into the EU budget after it leaves, the post-Brexit rights of EU and British citizens and whether Britain could keep an open border between Ireland and Northern Ireland. Leaders of the remaining 27 EU members formally agreed that "sufficient progress" had been made to move on to phase two issues: the post-Brexit transition period and the future UK-EU trading relationship. While Prime Minister Theresa May expressed her delight at the decision, European Council President Tusk ominously warned that the second stage of talks would be "dramatically difficult." British ministers appeared to back a Brexit plan at May's Chequers residence on July 6. The proposal would have kept Britain in a "combined customs territory" with the EU and signed up to a "common rulebook" on all goods. That went too far for British Foreign Minister Boris Johnson and Brexit Secretary David Davis, who resigned a few days later. May replaced them with Jeremy Hunt and Dominic Raab. May's Chequers proposal did not go down well with EU leaders, who told her at a summit in Salzburg in late September that it was unacceptable. EU Council President Tusk trolled May on Instagram, captioning a picture of himself and May looking at cakes with the line: "A piece of cake perhaps? Sorry, no cherries." The gag echoed previous EU accusations of British cherry-picking. EU leaders endorsed a 585-page draft divorce deal and political declaration on post-Brexit ties in late November. The draft had been widely condemned by pro- and anti-Brexit lawmakers in the British Parliament only weeks earlier. Brexit Secretary Dominic Raab resigned along with several other ministers, and dozens of Conservative Party members tried to trigger a no-confidence vote in May. In the face of unrelenting opposition, May postponed a parliamentary vote on the deal on December 10. The next day, she met with German Chancellor Angela Merkel to seek reassurances that would, she hoped, be enough to convince skeptical lawmakers to back the deal. But while she was away, hard-line Conservative lawmakers triggered a no-confidence vote. May won the vote a day later. The UK Parliament voted 432 to 202 against May's Brexit deal on January 16. In response to the result, European Council President Donald Tusk suggested the only solution was for the UK to stay in the EU. Meanwhile, Britain's Labour Party called for a no-confidence vote in the prime minister, her second leadership challenge in as many months. May tried to get legal changes to the deal's so-called Irish backstop in the weeks that followed. She eventually got assurances that the UK could suspend the backstop under certain circumstances. But on March 12, Parliament voted against the revised Brexit deal by 391 to 242. EU leaders warned the vote increased the likelihood of a no-deal Brexit. Two days later, MPs voted to delay Brexit. Following the second defeat of May's divorce deal, the European Council met in Brussels on March 21 to decide what to do next. EU leaders gave May two options: delay Brexit until May 22 if MPs vote for the withdrawal deal or delay it until April 12 if they vote against the deal. If the deal were to fail again in Parliament, May could ask for a long extension. On March 29, the day that the UK was supposed to leave the EU, British lawmakers voted for a third time against May's deal — rejecting it this time with a vote of 344 to 286. Following the latest defeat, May approached the main opposition Labour leader Jeremy Corbyn in an attempt to find a compromise, angering hardline Brexiteers in her own Conservative party. With the April 12 deadline looming after the third defeat of May's deal, EU leaders met again in Brussels to discuss a second delay. The only question was how long should it be? In the end, the UK and EU agreed to a "flexible" extension until October 31 — which can end sooner if the Brexit deal is approved. The UK had to take part in EU elections in May because their exit wasn't secured in time. Weeks of talks between Prime Minister Theresa May and the Labour party to reach a deal proved unsuccessful and further eroded her political capital. She triggered an angry backlash from her party after she tried to put the option of a second referendum on the table. The series of failures led May to announce her resignation, effective June 7, in an emotional address. After Theresa May left office on June 7, other members of her Conservative party began clamoring for the top job. After two rounds of voting, the field has been narrowed down to Environment Secretary Michael Gove (left), former Foreign Secretary Boris Johnson (right), Former Development Secretary Rory Stewart, Home Secretary Sajid Javid, and Foreign Secretary Jeremy Hunt. Author: Alexander Pearson As the favorite, Johnson has been accused of shying away from scrutiny, having avoided television debates and media interviews. Both men have said they aim to extract better terms for Britain's withdrawal agreement from the EU than Prime Minister Theresa May, who announced earlier this month that she would be standing down. Otherwise, both have said they are prepared to leave the bloc without a deal. Each evening at 1830 UTC, DW's editors send out a selection of the day's hard news and quality feature journalism. You can sign up to receive it directly here.