National boundaries must be overcome and trade should thrive. The 23 signatories countries to the African Continental Free Trade Agreement (AfCFTA) has set out to establish the world's biggest free trade zone – nothing more, nothing less. African ministers met in Addis Ababa on June 6, 2019 to discuss the the next steps. Many details of the deal that was ratified at the end of May still need to be clarified. Whether it will really bring the hoped for economic benefits is still uncertain. Opportunities for the youth The area covered by the trade zone is huge and if the 31 other African states still ratify the deal, it would encompass 1.5 billion people. Many politicians are hoping to create more jobs and business opportunities. "This is a historic agreement," said economist Muhammad Jagana, the former president of Gambia's Chamber of Commerce. "It could create opportunities for young people. Many of them have creative ideas and want to distribute their products and services throughout the continent," Jagana told DW. He, however, also cautioned about too much optimism, especially in the trade deal's early days. "We have 54 countries with different national laws," he pointed out. There will be many challenges involved in trading goods and services without border controls. Major economies remain reluctant Jagana hopes that the private sector can offer some assistance in implementing the deal. Otherwise, he sees the AfCFTA agreement meeting similar challenges to the regional trade zones, like the Southern African Customs Union (SACU) and the Economic Community of West African States (ECOWAS) which have been struggling to get their feet off the ground for years. And they have the backing of Africa's top economies, South Africa and Nigeria. Unfortunately these two major economies have chosen to boycott the free trade agreement. "Both countries are looking inward. They're not seeing the opportunities for their businesses can have in other African countries," Jagana explained. Jagana believes that the deal could have benefits for all African countries. For smaller countries like Gambia, it would make it easier to do business within the continent and for Africans in general, it would lower the prices of goods and services produced on the continent. Conflict of interest Yves Ekue Amaizo, a Togoan economist views the trade deal more critically. He thinks it could lead to price-dumping. "Nigerian farmers don't want to know anything about it. If cheapers products from abroad flood the market, they will have nobody to sell to and could lose their jobs," Amaizo argued. "Nigerians want to produce their first all-terrain cars. They don't want to see an influx of cheap cars from outside." Many businesses are not even concerned with an influx of African products, but products from outside the continent which would be more difficult to control in a free trade zone. For Christoph Kannengießer, CEO of the German–African Business Association, the fact that Africa's biggest economy, Nigeria hasn't yet ratified AfCFTA, doesn't pose a major problem. Currently, he explained, Nigeria feels stronger alone than as a part of the community, but that won't always be the case. Mozamibique, which exports mainly cotton, cashew nuts, tea and sugar, signed the AfCFTA Free trade must develop over time The political will behind the new agreement is remarkable Kannengießer told DW. One must give the African free trade zone space to grow, he said. After all, "the inner European market didn't develop over night." In the end everything came very quickly. After years of stagnation, Rwandan president Paul Kagame lobbied for the project during his tenure as chair of the African Union in 2018. The plan is to ease trade through less harrowing border controls. Within the next ten years, the countries have set themselves the ambitious goal of making inner African trade 25 percent of the total trade on the continent. At the moment this stands at 16 percent. Inner-European trade as a comparison makes 70 percent of Europe's trade. "African countries have understood that they must unite and that they have an enormous potential for development if they trade more amongst each other," Kannengießer explained. A functioning trade zone could also make Africa more interesting for European investors. The music of the market's name does justice to the buzz one feels when walking through its streets. Africa's biggest open market is the pride of Ethiopia's capital Addis Ababa. Established during the Italian occupation in the 1930s, the place feels truly Ethiopian: filled with contrasts of smells, items, colors – and personalities. The market was conceived by the Italians who occupied Ethiopia after the Italo-Ethiopian War of 1935. Addis Ababa was already the commercial center of the country since the end of the 19th century, and the Italians wanted to further consolidate this centralized trade topography. They replaced the pre-war market, today's Piazza area, with what they called the 'Merkato indigeno.' The Italians wanted to destroy the dominant expatriate mercantile class in favor of state monopoly on trade. Local ethnic Gurage traders especially, who were already involved in caravan trade, challenged the Yemenite Arabs who were dominating the retail trade. Today, Addis Merkato, also called Addis Ketema, continues to be a national business hub. Anything from food and drinks to chairs, saws, shoes, blankets or stoves can be found at Merkato. It is home to 7,100 businesses who employ around 13,000 people. This is not counting the thousands of informal stands which constitute an entire parallel economy within the market. Addis Merkoto appears to be a small city within the city. Being a true microcosm of the Ethiopian economy, Merkato has a wide range of coffee bean stalls. Coffee constitutes the country's leading export (around $1 billion per year) and is internationally known for its quality. Recent months have seen an unprecedented slump in coffee coffee prices, with small-scale farmers now earning an estimated 1 cent per cup of coffee. An entire street in the Merkato is dedicated to khat, a popular psychotropic leaf chewed for its stimulating effects. It also constitutes one of Ethiopia's main exports. Although khat can have harmful health effects, its economic benefits have kept it legal. While khat was traditionally chewed by Muslims during Ramadan, its use has spread exponentially in recent years. Spices form an important section of the market, as they do in Ethiopian dishes. Customers select the best ones through touch and, more importantly, smell. These spices are later mixed into the various “wet” sauces that are consumed with traditional injera bread. Ethiopia is home to about eight million donkeys, which are a favorite pack animal. They are a common feature of Merkato. When donkeys are old or injured, some are taken to the outskirts of the cities where they are left to die. Although sensitization programs have seen the light to improve the way donkeys are treated, there is still a long way to go. While trash management and recycling has still a long way to go in Ethiopia, the economy of informal recycling is booming in Merkato. More for economic than environmental reasons – enormous piles of plastic containers, bags and packaging are collected and stacked to be sold again. Where will the money come from? Economist Amaizo welcomes the idea of reducing transaction costs in order increase trade. But he believes that many of the conditions for a free trade zone have not yet been met. It needs an administrative body which regulates trade and mediates with trade disputes. It needs funding. Kagame has proposed a 0.2 percent tax on goods coming into Africa, but this measure has not yet been put into place. All of these details now lie with the ministers and their respective ministries gathering in Addis Ababa. In July after the next African Union summit, heads of state plan to get to work and make the plans reality. 