Judges in Brazil's Supreme Court knocked back a proposal to temporarily release former President Luiz Inacio Lula da Silva (commonly know as Lula) by three votes to two. The leftist ex-leader was jailed in 2018 on charges of corruption and money laundering. His defense lawyers argue the verdict should be overturned and Lula released because of accusations of inappropriate conduct against the convicting justice in the case. The implicated judge was Sergio Moro, currently the justice minister in President Jair Bolsonaro's government. The top court is not expected to make a decision on that petition until later in the year. On Tuesday, one of the judges had suggested Lula be released in the meantime, but that request was rejected by the panel. Read more: Lula: Brazil's bitter divide personified Send  Facebook   Twitter   google+   Whatsapp   Tumblr   linkedin   stumble   Digg   reddit   Newsvine Permalink https://p.dw.com/p/34iRY Allegations of bias Investigative website The Intercept earlier this month published leaked documents and text messages that it said show Moro offering improper guidance to prosecutors seeking Lula's conviction. Lula's lawyers argue Moro was not impartial, and was working to block Lula and his Workers' Party from returning to power. The justice minister denies wrongdoing and has ignored calls for his resignation. Lula served as Brazil's president from 2003 to 2010, and left office with an approval rating of 87%  — albeit long before major corruption scandals involving his government emerged. His imprisonment meant he was barred from seeking the presidency again in October's election. Polls favored Lula at the time of his exclusion from the race, although the right-wing populist Bolsonaro subsequently made major gains and went on to claim a relatively comfortable victory. Read more: Brazil's presidential election: Mired in crisis, headed for autocracy? Send  Facebook   Twitter   google+   Whatsapp   Tumblr   linkedin   stumble   Digg   reddit   Newsvine Permalink https://p.dw.com/p/2vfyq He was convicted in July 2017 after being found guilty of giving a construction company lucrative government contracts in exchange for a beachfront penthouse. He was one of dozens of high-profile figures in Brazil embroiled in the corruption scandal at state oil firm Petrobras. The 73-year-old, who denies all charges, began serving a 12-year sentence in April 2018. Earlier this year, Brazil's second-highest court reduced his sentence to eight years and 10 months, but rejected an appeal to have the conviction annulled. Bolsonaro has criticized the very democracy that won him the presidency. In a 1999 TV interview, he said he would shut down Congress if he ever became president. "There is no doubt: I would perform a coup on the same day. And I'm sure that at least 90 percent of the population would celebrate and applaud because [Congress] doesn't work," Bolsonaro said. "Let's go straight to the dictatorship." Four years ago, Bolsonaro engaged in a heated debate with Brazilian lawmaker Maria do Rosario. During the debate, he said: "I wouldn't rape you because you don't deserve it." Shortly after, he defended himself, saying he wasn't a rapist. However, he added that if he were a rapist, he wouldn't touch do Rosario because she is "ugly." In a speech at Rio de Janeiro's Hebraica Club in April 2017, Bolsonaro spoke about his family. "I have five children. Four are men, and then in a moment of weakness the fifth came out a girl," he said. LGBT activists have long railed against Bolsonaro for his homophobic stance. But in a 2011 Playboy magazine interview, Bolsonaro made things personal, saying he "would be incapable of loving a homosexual son … I would prefer my son to die in an accident than show up with a mustachioed man." In May 2002, he said that if he saw "two men kissing each other on the street" he would "beat them up." Bolsonaro has often belittled impoverished communities. But in 2008, he took things a step further by suggesting poor people should be prevented from bearing children. Birth control "methods have to be provided for those who, unfortunately, are ignorant and have no means to control their offspring because we [as the upper middle class] are able to control ours." nm/msh (Reuters, AFP, AP, dpa) DW sends a daily selection of hard news and quality journalism. Sign up here.