"That camp is our shame," says a teacher on Samos, pointing to a refugee center near the town of Vathy. The camp, set up in 2016 following the European Union's controversial refugee deal with Turkey, is home to migrants waiting for their asylum applications to be processed. The Greek island of Samos is just a stone's throw from the Turkish coast. And boats with migrants arrive here constantly — though again and again, refugees drown in the crossing in a desperate attempt to reach the EU. It's no wonder Greek locals are appalled by the camp: originally intended for just 650 asylum-seekers, it's now home to about 4,000 migrants from the Middle East and Africa. Officially, nobody is supposed to wait longer than three months to have his or her asylum application processed. But the reality is very different, leaving many migrants stranded. Read more: Europe's migrant rescue boats face uncertain future Daily rations include just 1.5 liters of drinking water and a small amount of food Inhumane conditions Some 1,500 migrants have settled around the camp, in what has become known as "the jungle." "We have to deal with rats and snakes, we don't have toilets, showers or access to drinking water," says a 30-year-old woman from Congo who lives near the camp. She says many Greek people accuse people like her of coming to Europe just for the money. But that's not the case, she says, stressing that her country is embroiled in conflict. She will only be able to make her case to Greek authorities in March 2021. She's desperate, and can't fathom giving birth to her child in this makeshift camp, where migrants receive just 1.5 liters of drinking water (less than half a gallon) and a small amount of food each day. Read more: At Spain's enclave of Ceuta, African refugees dream of Europe Migrants in the official camp, meanwhile, report similarly dire conditions. Women have reported being raped, and endless queues are common. "You have to wait in line for three hours to get food, and at least an hour just to use the toilets," says a 24-year-old Iraqi man. His first asylum application was rejected — he says all Iraqis have had their applications rejected, though he has no idea why. For him, returning home is out of the question: "If I go back to Iraq, I will get killed." A 32-year-old man from Congo finds himself in a similar situation. He and his wife have been living in the island camp since last October, and they are desperate to get to Belgium. "Belgian authorities have to grant us asylum; they colonized our country. Making it to Belgium will be like reaching home," he says. The couple left their children behind so that they can first sort out their asylum status — though that's proving difficult. So far, they're still waiting for an appointment to see the Greek authorities about their application. He says they currently receive €90 (about $100) in assistance every month, of which they have to spend €2.50 euro on bank fees. "How are we supposed to live off that?" he asks, incredulously. Send  Facebook   Twitter   google+   Whatsapp   Tumblr   linkedin   stumble   Digg   reddit   Newsvine Permalink https://p.dw.com/p/3JLqP 'There are just too many migrants' The refugee camp has almost doubled the population in Vathy, and visibly changed the idyllic city. Today, migrants from the Middle East and Africa are more common than Western tourists. Not all locals are comfortable with this development. One says that at first, there were hopes the refugee center would also bring additional European funds to the area. But that never materialized. And today, the Greek islanders and asylum-seekers feel they've been abandoned. Many shops, cafés and restaurants in Vathy are off-limits to asylum-seekers. Owners fear that otherwise they'll scare away the tourists. A clerk working a shop that does welcome migrants confesses: "I won't let my kids out on the streets by themselves, I'm scared for their safety." And her colleague insists: "We're not racists; there are just too many migrants." Maria, who runs a jewelry shop on Vathy's high street, think these fears are irrational. She admits there have been some problems but says that locals' worries stem "from their fear of the unknown." Maria says many locals are wondering how long the asylum-seekers will stay on the island, and if they'll start outnumbering them. Read more: Europe's apathy toward humanitarian rescue outrages NGOs Pedro, an actor and LGBT activist, fled Lebanon due to safety concerns. He doesn’t see much hope in Greece. "I left because Lebanon was not safe for me as an LGBT and [being] HIV positive. But Greece isn’t much different," he told DW. But his biggest concern is the future: "Even if I get asylum in Greece life will not be good, because there are no jobs, the language is difficult." Manar fled Syria in 2016 and now learns Greek and works as an interpreter with the Greek NGO Solidarity Now. "In Greece you have to count on yourself to support yourself and your family," she told DW. "If I look at the future of the Greek children, I can't find a very bright future for them so for sure I can't find any future for mine." Foivos has been in Greece since the 1980s when he fled the Syrian regime and came to study law. He now works as an interpreter at the Refugee Day Center Alkyone, and was a candidate in Thessaloniki's local elections. "The two biggest issues that Europe has to face now is the rise of nationalism and climate change," he told DW. "Poverty and misery leads to nationalism." Since Suhaib fled Iraqi Kurdistan 18 months ago, he has been active in volunteer groups as a way to give something back to those who first helped him. "Fascists in the past killed millions, but after World War II Europeans volunteered in order to rebuild Europe," he says. "My message for European leaders would be to try to make a Europe for everyone." Fahima from Afghanistan has been in Greece since 2004, and now works as an interpreter for the Refugee Day Center Alkyone. Her biggest fear is the rise of fascism. "During the Greek government of 2012-2014 fascists became stronger. For this reason we had to leave Athens," she said. "Things in Europe will become worse from now on because of the far right. It now seems to be losing its meaning." Malaz (not his real name) came to Greece in 2016 with his family. His sons started speaking Greek soon after they arrived, so they decided to stay in the country. "I am afraid of the rise of the far right," he told DW. "Things will become very difficult for Greece. If the EU wants to help refugees they should create jobs and offer education." Bagher, who works as an assistant kindergarten facilitator, arrived in Greece in 2015 and was stuck in the country due to the EU's policies. "In the beginning Greece was a door but people got stuck here," he said. "But people need jobs and housing. Greeks don't even have jobs, how will we?" Even though Bagher remains optimistic, he doesn't think the EU is willing to help refugees. Mojtaba has been in Greece for over three years. He's currently at a Greek school and dreams of becoming a footballer or a dentist. He sees the rise of fascism as one of Europe's biggest problems, but not the only one. "Right-wing parties rise and this is not good for societies," he said. "The extreme right will destroy the face of Europe." Author: Marianna Karakoulaki (Greece) Bad press harms tourist industry Many people on Samos fear the migrant presence is hurting the tourist trade. Evangelos Kalogeris, who in 2017 opened a falafel restaurant on Vathy's main square, is certain the current situation is putting tourists off. Kalogeris, who employs asylum-seekers in his eatery, says the migrant situation "has unjustifiably harmed the island's reputation; the migrants are not causing any problems." Media reports have played their part, creating the false impression that Samos is overrun by migrants. The island is actually rather large, and the majority of asylum-seekers are based in and around Vathy. A travel agent in the picturesque village of Kokkari, located just 2 kilometers (just over a mile) from Vathy, says "you don't see any refugee here or in the south of the island." And her colleague, who works nearby in an office at Vathy's port, say cruise ships now avoid Vathy to spare tourists the sight of all the migrants. That's why Kalogeris is urging politicians to rethink the migrant plan. He believes asylum-seekers should be fairly redistributed, saying "our island can support 1,000 people at most." While some migrants have language skills that allow them to work in the tourist industry — as in Kalogeris' falafel shop — not all 4,000 asylum-seekers can expect to find such a job. Send  Facebook   Twitter   google+   Whatsapp   Tumblr   linkedin   stumble   Digg   reddit   Newsvine Permalink https://p.dw.com/p/3IMYR Every day, DW's editors send out a selection of the day's hard news and quality feature journalism. Sign up for the newsletter here.