Israel on Sunday fired missiles onto a Syrian military air base in the country's central Homs province, in the second such attack over the past 24 hours, Syria's state-run media said. The strike on the T-4 air base "killed one soldier, wounded two others and damaged an arms warehouse," a military source told state news agency SANA. In addition to the Syrian army, Iranian fighters and Hezbollah paramilitary forces are also stationed at the air base, said the UK-based Syrian Observatory for Human Rights (SOHR). There was no immediate comment from Israel. The attack came hours after the Israel Defense Forces (IDF) said they had struck several targets in Syria, including artillery batteries and observation posts. At least three soldiers were killed and seven others wounded in the attack, SANA said. SOHR reported that at least 10 military personnel, including three Syrian soldiers, were killed in the strikes. The IDF said it struck military targets in response to the launching of two rockets from Syria towards Israel, one of which it said landed on its territory. "We hold the Syrian regime accountable and will firmly operate against any attempt to harm Israeli civilians," an IDF statement said. Last month, Israel said its aircraft had hit a Syrian military post in response to anti-aircraft fire at one of its combat planes. One Syrian soldier was killed, according to state-run media. Read more: Iran's military power: What you need to know Iran on Israel's doorstep As the Syrian civil war winds down, Israel has stepped up its strikes on Iran's elite forces in the neighboring state. Israeli forces have carried out hundreds of airstrikes in Syria, most of them against what Tel Aviv says are Iranian and Hezbollah targets. Israel insists that it will not allow Iran — which has sent forces to help President Bashar Assad in Syria's civil war — to establish a permanent military presence in Syria. Syria has been engulfed in a devastating civil war since 2011 after Syrian President Bashar Assad lost control over large parts of the country to multiple revolutionary groups. The conflict has since drawn in foreign powers and brought misery and death to Syrians. Syria's army, officially known as the Syrian Arab Army (SAA), is loyal to Syrian President Bashar al-Assad and is fighting to restore the president's rule over the entire country. The SAA has been fighting alongside a number of pro-Assad militias such as the National Defense Force and has cooperated with military advisors from Russia and Iran, which back Assad. Turkey, which is also part of the US-led coalition against IS, has actively supported rebels opposed to Assad. It has a tense relationship with its American allies over US cooperation with Kurdish fighters, who Ankara says are linked to the Kurdistan Workers' Party (PKK) fighting in Turkey. The Turkish military has intervened alongside rebels in northern Aleppo, Afrin and Idlib province. The Kremlin has proven to be a powerful friend to Assad. Russian air power and ground troops officially joined the fight in September 2015 after years of supplying the Syrian army. Moscow has come under fire from the international community for the high number of civilian casualties during its airstrikes. However, Russia's intervention turned the tide in war in favor of Assad. A US-led coalition of more than 50 countries, including Germany, began targeting IS and other terrorist targets with airstrikes in late 2014. The anti-IS coalition has dealt major setbacks to the militant group. The US has more than a thousand special forces in the country backing the Syrian Democratic Forces. The Free Syrian Army grew out of protests against the Assad regime that eventually turned violent. Along with other non-jihadist rebel groups, it seeks the ouster of President Assad and democratic elections. After suffering a number of defeats, many of its members defected to hardline militant groups. It garnered some support from the US and Turkey, but its strength has been greatly diminished. Fighting between Syrian Kurds and Islamists has become its own conflict. The US-led coalition against the "Islamic State" has backed the Syrian Democratic Forces, an alliance of Kurdish and Arab militias. The Kurdish YPG militia is the main component of the SDF. The Kurds have had a tacit understanding with Assad. "Islamic State" (IS) took advantage of regional chaos to capture vast swathes of territory in Iraq and Syria in 2014. Seeking to establish its own "caliphate," IS has become infamous for its fundamentalist brand of Islam and its mass atrocities. IS is on the brink of defeat after the US and Russia led separate military campaigns against the militant group. IS is not the only terrorist group that has ravaged Syria. A number of jihadist militant groups are fighting in the conflict, warring against various rebel factions and the Assad regime. One of the main jihadist factions is Hay'at Tahrir al-Sham, which controls most of Idlib province and has ties with al-Qaeda. Iran has supported Syria, its only Arab ally, for decades. Eager to maintain its ally, Tehran has provided Damascus with strategic assistance, military training and ground troops when the conflict emerged in 2011. The Iran-backed Lebanese Shiite militant group Hezbollah also supports the Assad regime, fighting alongside Iranian forces and paramilitary groups in the country. Author: Elizabeth Schumacher, Alexander Pearson sri, kw/amp (AP, AFP, dpa) Each evening at 1830 UTC, DW's editors send out a selection of the day's hard news and quality feature journalism. You can sign up to receive it directly here.