US national security adviser John Bolton warned Tehran on Sunday it should not "mistake US prudence and discretion for weakness." "No one has granted them a hunting license in the Middle East," Bolton said of Iran ahead of a meeting with Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu. "Our military is rebuilt, new and ready to go." US President Donald Trump claimed Friday that he rescinded the order for airstrikes on Iran after he was told 150 people would die in the attacks. The United States launched an offensive cyber strike against Iranian missile control systems and a spy network on Thursday, amid escalating tensions between the two countries, US media said Saturday. US President Trump signed an executive order on August 5 aimed at piling financial pressure on Tehran to force a "comprehensive and lasting solution" to Iranian threats, including its development of missiles and regional "malign" activities. Trump warned that those who don't wind down their economic ties to Iran "risk severe consequences." The first phase, which took effect on August 7, targets the Islamic Republic's access to US banknotes, making transactions in a US-dollar dominated financial world difficult. A ban on Iran purchasing precious metals including gold further serves as an attempt to cut the country off from global markets. Phase one also hits key industries including the purchase of commercial planes, cars and carpets. Iranian imports of graphite, aluminum, steel, coal, gold and some software are also affected. German automaker Daimler called off the production and sale of Mercedes-Benz trucks in Iran indefinitely after the sanctions came into force. A second phase of sanctions — which is due to take effect on November 5 and will block Iran's oil sales — is due to cause more damage. Several countries, however, including China, India and Turkey have indicated they are not willing to entirely cut their Iranian energy purchases. Iranian President Hassan Rouhani said that the United States had launched "psychological warfare" against Iran to create division amongst its people. But he insisted that Iran still can rely on its allies China and Russia to keep its oil and banking sectors afloat. He has also demanded compensation for decades of American "intervention" in the Islamic Republic. European Union foreign policy chief Federica Mogherini said the bloc is encouraging small and medium enterprises to increase their business with Iran. She said Tehran has been compliant with their nuclear-related commitments. The EU issued a "blocking statute" to protect European businesses from the impact of the sanctions. Author: Keith Walker 'Sanctions are biting' Bolton said sanctions against Iran were having an effect. "Sanctions are biting, and more added last night. Iran can never have nuclear weapons, not against the USA and not against the world," he said. The US is expected to enact new sanctions against Iran on Monday. Bolton is due to meet with security advisers from Israel and Russia in Jerusalem on Monday and Tuesday when he takes part in a security summit. Every evening, DW's editors send out a selection of the day's hard news and quality feature journalism. You can sign up to receive it directly here. kw/jm (AP, AFP, Reuters)