Sponsors of Brazilian football megastar Neymar have suspended advertising campaigns following an alleged rape scandal, his agents said Friday. A 26-year-old model has accused the star striker for Paris Saint-Germain of raping her in a Paris hotel in May. She spent about six hours giving a statement to Sao Paulo police on Friday, braving the assembled media scrum. The case has gripped the football-loving nation. Earlier in the week, Neymar also spoke to police after intimate WhatsApp messages and photos of his alleged victim were leaked online. He blamed an assistant and a technician for the leak. His alleged victim told Brazilian media she had suffered "aggression together with rape" at the hands of the player. She alleged he was angered after she refused to have unprotected sex. He allegedly continued anyway and hit her repeatedly. NR Sports, rights holders of Neymar's name and image, said no sponsorship contracts had been canceled, though it detailed which campaigns had been suspended. "All the partners, for obvious reasons, are alert and aware of the unfolding events," the statement said. Send  Facebook   Twitter   google+   Whatsapp   Tumblr   linkedin   stumble   Digg   reddit   Newsvine Permalink https://p.dw.com/p/3K120 Sponsors muted Nike said earlier in the week that it was "very concerned" about the rape accusation. Mastercard told Reuters news agency it had planned an advertising campaign, but did not confirm reports it had decided to suspend Neymar's role in the project. Neymar, one of football's biggest names, has enjoyed a surge of support among Brazilians in the wake of the accusations. Polls show more than 60% of Brazilians believe he is blameless, and even far-right President Jair Bolsonaro has publicly declared his innocence. aw/cmk (AFP, AP, Reuters) In the 2017-18 season, Jürgen Klopp desperately needed a defender. Liverpool found a way to supply him with one, spending a reported 75 million pounds (€84.2 million, $101.3 million) on Virgil van Dijk in January, making the Dutchman the most expensive defender of all time. After Lukaku scoring 26 goals for Everton in the 2016-17 season, Manchester United shelled out a reported 75 million pounds (€84.8 million, $96.8 million) for the Belgian striker. He rewarded the Red Devils for their investment right away, scoring seven goals in his first seven Premier League games. Scoring 36 goals in 35 league appearances, Gonzalo Higuain had a memorable 2015-2016 season at Napoli. Italy's record champions Juventus were eager to sign the Argentinian striker, paying €90 million ($99 million) for his services. After two seasons in Turin, he moved to AC Milan on loan, a deal which could become permanent in 2019. Welsh superstar Gareth Bale became the world's most expensive player in 2013 after he transferred to Real Madrid for a fee of €100 million (then $132 million) after a six-year stint at Tottenham Hotspur. His move remains the most costly signing ever finalized by the Spanish club. Three years after Bale's mega-move, Paul Pogba dethroned the Welshman as the world's most expensive player when he moved from Juventus to Manchester United for €105 million ($116.6 million). Pogba had come through the Red Devils' youth setup before leaving on a free transfer. Dembele was one of Dortmund's most exciting and promising players, so much so that only after a year of playing in Germany, Barcelona came knocking for his services. The French forward transferred to Barca for €105 million ($123.9 million) with up to €42 million in bonus payments. The deal is the most expensive sale by a German club in football history. Portugal's most capped player could appear on this list twice. His €94 million (then $132.5 million) move to Real Madrid shattered the world transfer record. After four Ballon d'Or, four Champions League and two La Liga titles with the Galacticos, he completed a €117 million ($136.9 million) move to Juventus in July. Want to talk about profit? Liverpool purchased Philippe Coutinho from Inter Milan in January 2013 for €13 million ($17.3 million at the time). Five years later, the English club sold the Brazilian playmaker for a reported €120 million ($145.2 million) fee, which could increase to €160 million with bonuses. A pretty good turnover, right? Before he was a World Cup winner with France, Mbappe was a highly coveted teenage talent. After a bursting onto the season with Monaco in 2016-17, the French forward moved to Paris Saint-Germain for a total package worth €180 million (€214 million) — a €45 million loan for 2017-18 followed by a €135 million transfer. Who could afford to buy a player for €222 million ($262 million)? Qatari-owned French giants Paris Saint-Germain are one of the very few clubs in the globe capable of it. In the summer of 2017, Brazilian star Neymar received an offer he could just not refuse from PSG. The Brazilian left Lionel Messi's shadow in Barcelona for the French capital, becoming the world's most expensive footballer. Every evening, DW sends out a selection of the day's news and features. Sign up here.