Danish national Claus Ruhe Madsen on Sunday won a run-off to become mayor of the northern German city of Rostock, the first foreigner to secure the post. Madsen, an independent, claimed about 57% of the vote beating Steffen Bockhahn of the far-left Linke with around 43%. The 46-year-old's candidacy was supported by Chancellor Angela Merkel's Christian Democrats (CDU) and the business-friendly Free Democrats (FDP), who did not field their own candidates. Madsen beat off competition from seven other first-round applicants for the position, which became vacant as a result of incumbent Roland Methling's retirement. Read more: German man pretends his dog is a sheep to save taxes Originally from Copenhagen, Madsen has been living in Germany since 1992 and moved to Rostock about seven years later. Before taking on the mayoralty, he was president of Rostock's Chamber of Industry and Commerce for six years while, at the same time, managing five furniture stores. Madsen's wife will run the businesses during his 7-year term. Rostock lies on Germany's Baltic Sea coast, 170 kilometers (106 miles) northeast of Hamburg, and has a population of 210,000. Madsen's win comes on the same day that voters in the eastern city of Görlitz rejected the Alternative for Germany (AfD) candidate for mayor, Sebastian Wippel, despite fears the far-right, anti-immigration party had strengthened its support in the border area with Poland. At the time of the Hanseatic League, Rostock was one of the most important goods handling centers on the Baltic Sea, earning it the name of "Gateway to Scandinavia." These days the city hosts a large maritime festival every summer known as the Hanse Sail. About 250 traditional sailing ships of all shapes and sizes enter the city port of Rostock, where visitors can board and view them. From the 13th to the 15th century the Hanseatic League dominated trade along the coast of Northern Europe. Hamburg joined the trade alliance in 1321. The port existed even back then. These days Hamburg Port is hugely popular with tourists. A million visitors come to celebrate the port's anniversary at the beginning of May alone. Lübeck was the richest town in the Hanseatic city alliance. Known as the "Queen of the Hanseatic League," it governed the league for many years. The old town center has been a UNESCO World Heritage Site since 1987. Some 200 cities along the North and Baltic Sea coasts and inland formed the Hanseatic League. The European Hansemuseum in Lübeck records the rise and fall of this trade association. Stralsund on the Baltic Sea shows what Hanseatic cities looked at the height of the League in the 14th century. The basic design of the medieval town center has remained largely unchanged. The modern Oceanographic museum, "Ozeaneum" (above white), was constructed between the old harbor warehouses. Here visitors can dive into the underwater worlds of the North Sea, the Baltic Sea and the Polar Sea. Rich traders from Bremen shipped their goods via the River Weser into the North Sea and from there sent them around the world. The market square particularly reflects the self-confidence of the medieval citizens of Bremen. The ornate town hall (left building in photo) and the Roland Statue have been a UNESCO World Heritage Site since 2004. Wismar's calling card is its red brick architecture, a style of building that can only be found in northern Germany. Great non-religious buildings, such as storehouses, but also mighty churches were built in the characteristic style of Brick Gothic. The old town center of Wismar was declared a UNESCO World Heritage Site in 2002. The Hanseatic town of Lüneburg on the river Ilmenau was the biggest supplier of salt in northern Germany during the Middle Ages. The salt was mined in Lüneburg and then shipped downriver; the Ilmenau flows into the Elbe, which after a further 100 kilometers enters the North Sea. The German Salt Museum in Lüneburg shows the history of salt extraction and how it influenced the city. Korbach, in the center of present-day Germany, is not located on the seacoast or on a river. Nevertheless the town joined the Hanseatic League in 15th century, thanks to its geographically and economically significant location at the crossroads of several important trade routes. Today there are 25 cities in Germany that carry the label "Hanseatic." mm/jm (dpa, AFP) Each evening at 1830 UTC, DW's editors send out a selection of the day's hard news and quality feature journalism. You can sign up to receive it directly here.