German Chancellor Angela Merkel on Saturday said world leaders at the G20 summit would sign a climate change deal similar to that signed in Argentina last year. "We will have a similar text to Argentina. A 19+1 declaration," Merkel told reporters on the sidelines of a G20 meeting in Osaka. Merkel said the US accepted the other 19 members' determination to fight climate change, but would not be committing themselves. Japanese Prime Minister Shinzo Abe confirmed that the leaders had found common ground on climate change despite "big differences" in the members' views. At the G20 meeting in Buenos Aires, most countries reaffirmed their commitment to the landmark 2016 Paris Agreement on tackling climate change. They declared the accord "irreversible" and committed to its "full implementation." The US, however, said it was committed to withdrawing from the Paris Agreement and "affirms its strong commitment to economic growth and energy access and security." A pharmacy sign in Carpentras, a village in southeastern France, which shortly held the country's all-time heat record of 44.3 degrees on Friday. The record was topped again later in the afternoon in the southern village of Villevieille, 100 kilometers (60 miles) to the east, which measured a thermometer-busting 45.1 degrees Celsius (113 Fahrenheit). Local authorities said that improperly stored chicken dung at a farm in rural northeastern Spain spontaneously combusted in the extreme heat on Wednesday, unleashing a wildfire that continued to burn on into Friday. Temperatures in the area around the fire reached 41 Celsius on Friday (106 Fahrenheit), as more than 600 firefighters battle the blaze. Denizens of Paris cool down in the Trocadero esplanade. Pavement absorbs heat and takes longer to cool off, which makes cities feel even hotter during a heat wave. Air conditioning is also uncommon in many cities in northern Europe, which can make being indoors unbearable, as buildings trap the heat. A 2003 heatwave in France killed 15,000 people. A volunteer hands water to a homeless man in Milan, Italy, where the mercury has topped 40 degrees Celsius (104 Fahrenheit) in recent days. A heat wave alert was issued Friday in Milan, and an elderly homeless man reportedly died from heatstroke in a park near city's main train station. The extreme temperatures in Italy are expected to ease over the weekend. Bathers lounge on the rocky banks of the Isar river in Munich on Thursday. Last weekend, dozens of women who were bathing topless on the Isar were ordered by police to cover up, sparking a debate on public nudity. Nude beaches are common throughout Germany. The banks of the Isar should be full this weekend, with temperatures in Munich expected to reach 35 degrees Celsius (95 Fahrenheit). A polar bear cools off at the Hanover Zoo in Germany with a frozen sorbet. Zookeepers across Europe have been helping animals beat the heat with mixtures of fruit frozen in ice. Polar bears are also given frozen fish. On Thursday, France banned the transportation of live animals due to the extreme temperatures. A weather pattern that has stuck over Europe for almost a week is channeling extremely hot air from the Sahara desert northward. The World Meteorological Association said 2019 is on track to be one of the hottest years on record, and that heatwaves like the one currently scorching Europe are projected to happen more frequently. Possible goal of 'net-zero' emissions by 2050 German Chancellor Angela Merkel praised the agreement, telling reporters in Japan that "this process cannot be turned around." Merkel added that some leaders present in Osaka have already indicated they are willing to increase their commitments to curb greenhouse gases by aiming for "net zero" emissions by 2050. "In our view, climate change will determine the destiny of mankind, so it is imperative that our generation makes the right choices," said Chinese Foreign Minister Wang Yi at a news conference with his French counterpart and UN Secretary- General Antonio Guterres following the climate change talks. Read more: Climate protection: Germany falls farther behind Send  Facebook   Twitter   google+   Whatsapp   Tumblr   linkedin   stumble   Digg   reddit   Newsvine Permalink https://p.dw.com/p/3ISLZ Fair free trade policy needed Abe said the 20 leaders at the G20 summit had also confirmed the need for a free, fair and non-discriminatory trade policy. "The global economy continues to face downside risks as trade tensions persist," Abe told a news conference. "The G20 leaders agreed on the need for member countries to spearhead strong global economic growth", while standing ready to take further action if needed, he said. Abe added said he had told US President Donald Trump and Chinese President Xi Jinping that it was extremely important to engage in constructive discussion to solve their trade tensions. Following their talks, Trump and Abe said the US and China had agreed to resume trade talks, and Washington would not place any more tariffs on Chinese exports for the time being. law/ng (AFP, dpa) DW sends a daily selection of hard news and quality journalism. Sign up here.