The European Court of Justice (ECJ) ruled on Monday that Poland had violated EU as well as the independence of its courts when it enacted a controversial reform to its Supreme Court lowering the age of retirement for judges. The measure had forced 20 of the country's 72 top court judges to leave the bench earlier than planned. "Poland has infringed EU law," the court wrote in its decision, noting that the measure that came into force last year "undermines the principle of the irremovability of judges, that principle being essential to their independence." The law was put forward by Poland's ruling Law and Justice (PiS) party in 2017, claiming that getting rid of many of the older judges would modernize the court and root out corruption. Critics, however, argued that it was an attempt by the nationalist PiS to get rid of left-leaning judges and replace them with a more conservative group that would be less critical of the government. The move prompted massive protests across Poland, both against and in support of the government. Send  Facebook   Twitter   google+   Whatsapp   Tumblr   linkedin   stumble   Digg   reddit   Newsvine Permalink https://p.dw.com/p/3IRJ7 Poland backtracks amid EU pressure After coming into power in July 2018, the law was immediately challenged by the European Commission. The ECJ ruled that Poland had to suspend the measure until the case was decided. Warsaw has since scrapped the law. President Andrzej Duda signed a law in December reinstating the judges who had been forced into early retirement. Since the PiS became Poland's ruling party in 2015, it has frequently been at odds with Brussels over a series of reforms that the EU has argued violate its regulations, including a controversial new media law that gave government ministers the power to hire and fire the leaders of state broadcasters. The city of Bialystok receives 4 million Euros out of the European Regional Development Fund for its new interactive museum within the science communication center in Bialystok. The "Laboratorium Młodego Mistrza i Odkrywcy" is supposed to draw children and youth from all over the region. The development fund has supported the new fleet of electric buses in Jaworzno, in the south of Poland, with 9.5 million euros. It is supposed to improve public transport in the city as well as constitue another step on the path towards a sustainable transport system. Workers on railway line 216 between Działdowo and Olsztyn. With 81 Million euros in EU funds, the renovation of this railway line is one of the bigger development projects in the country, representative of many investments in infrastructure. The railway company PKP Polskie Linie Kolejowe SA is the third biggest recipient of funds in Poland, with more than half a billion euros total. In the Lower Silesian Oncology Center in Wroclaw, the first center for breast diseases in the region is being built and equipped with the support of 7 Million Euros out of the development fund. The Oncology Center has received funding through the ERDF in the past, for example for new equipment, a radiotherapy unit or programs for the prevention of breast cancer. With the help of 39 million euros out of the Regional Development fund, the hospital in Toruń in northern Poland is being extended and reconstructed – including the construction of a new, modern main building. Poland invests around 555 million euros in healthcare projects between 2014 and 2020. A five kilometers long beltway around the city of Bobrek is being built with regional development funds. The project is supposed to improve the region's infrastructure and reduce air pollution by reducing traffic in the inner city. A flyover on the Vistula river with a passageway for wild animals is also planned. Małopolska Province in Poland's south receives 20 Million euros for this project. Via the portal Polona.pl, Polish citizens can take a look into the archive of the biggest libraries in the country. To make that possible, the National Library of Poland and the Jagiellonian Library in Krakow are digitizing their archives with the help of EU funds. To this end, the National Library receives almost 20 Million Euros. A sign informs passers-by about the EU funding for the renovation of this intersection in the Polish city of Rzeszów. The city receives 112 Million Euros total for 15 different projects. Signs like this one can be found all over the member states of the European Union. Author: Kira Schacht es/rc (AFP, dpa) DW sends a daily selection of hard news and quality journalism. Sign up here.