A problem in the energy network left Argentina cut off from power at 7:06 a.m. local time (10:06 UTC). By mid-afternoon nearly half of Argentina's 44 million people were still in the dark. The outage also affected supplies to neighboring Uruguay and Paraguay. Edesur, a major provider to the two nations, confirmed the outage in a tweet. "A massive failure in the electrical interconnection system left all of Argentina and Uruguay without power," said Edesur. Company spokeswoman Alejandra Martinez described the power outage as historic, saying "nothing like this has ever happened." The Argentine company's "normalization process," which was launched shortly after the blackout, has been ongoing for several hours, but as of 3:30 p.m. local time (18:30 UTC) only 56% of the nation's grid was back up and running. Authorities are still investigating the cause of the outage, but initial assessments suggest a "flaw" in the system. An independent energy expert in Argentina said the power grid's collapse was related to systemic operational and design errors. "A localized failure like the one that occurred should be isolated by the same system," said the president of Argentina's Center for the Study of Energy Regulatory Activity, Raul Bertero. "The problem is known and technology and studies (exist) to avoid it." Argentine state oil company YPF reported that all of the plants at its La Plata refinery had been shut down following the outage. Edesur called the outage "exceptional." Nationwide power outage across Argentina Regional elections Several provinces that had regional elections scheduled were forced to temporarily delay the votes. In the elections that were not delayed, voters went to the polls by the light of their mobile phones. The outage widely disrupted transportation, and shops were closed. Patients reliant on medical equipment were encouraged to go to the nearest hospital with a generator. The provincial government of Buenos Aires put emergency services on alert. Power cuts affected transport in wintery Argentina Lights off in Uruguay and Paraguay Uruguayan authorities blamed the Argentinian grid for the blackout. Uruguay's UTE power company said "a fault in the Argentina network affected the interconnected system, leaving the entire national territory without service, as well as several provinces of the neighbor country." By mid-afternoon, most of Uruguay's 3 million people had power back. In Paraguay, the capital was not affected, but local providers said they were still restoring power to smaller cities and rural areas. Read more: Dams: Clean power, sullied legacy An interconnected power supply Uruguay relies on Argentina — the third-largest energy supplier in Latin America — for a significant portion of its energy needs, although investments in renewable energies, such as wind and solar, have allowed it to partially wean itself from its southern neighbor. All three countries are located in the Southern Hemisphere, which is currently experiencing winter conditions. Read more: Montevideo no longer to be the 'forgotten capital' of tango mc,ls,sm/amp (AFP, dpa) Every evening, DW sends out a selection of the day's news and features. Sign up here. Send  Facebook   Twitter   google+   Whatsapp   Tumblr   linkedin   stumble   Digg   reddit   Newsvine Permalink https://p.dw.com/p/1Jra0