Germany's failed car toll project cost the federal transport ministry €53,601,435 according to government documents. These costs pertain to the preparation and implementation period from 2014 to the present. The country's embattled transport minister, Andreas Scheuer, said the information would be made available to lawmakers, unedited, so they could better prepare to grill him on the project's apparent failure in parliament on Tuesday afternoon. Scheuer, a member of Bavaria's conservative CSU, said it was personally important to him "to comprehensively and transparently inform the German Bundestag about the contracts." This move from Scheuer followed pressure from the opposition to disclose details. Read more:  German opposition demand bungled toll contract details The European Court of Justice (ECJ) last week ruled against the plan in its current form over discrimination concerns.  German critics of the toll, including the Social Democrats — junior partners in the grand coalition — had argued since the plan's inception that European courts would torpedo the proposal. 'Tax on foreigners' Under the scheme — which was due to be introduced in October 2020 — all motorway users would have been charged a levy. But German-registered motorists would have been compensated in the form of a rebate on vehicle tax; the ECJ ruled that this would unfairly disadvantage non-German Europeans. Austrian Transport Minister Jörg Leichtfried slammed the measure as a "foreigner toll." Opportunity costs, canceled contracts Chancellor Angela Merkel said the country would also have to revise its budgets for 2020, which had foreseen annual government revenue of up to 500 million euros from the toll. Contracts with toll system provider Kapsch and ticket sales specialist CTS Eventim were canceled and planned jobs, some of which had already been filled, have been scrapped. Scheuer became the driving force behind the toll in 2018 when he took over the transport ministry from fellow CSU politician Alexander Dobrindt, who initially floated the policy. Tit-for-tat in Tirol Meanwhile, Scheuer's Transport Ministry is planning to take Austria to court in a similar case, after country roads were closed to German drivers in the state of Tirol, calling the measure "deeply discriminatory." kw/msh (dpa, Reuters) The only European country without a general speed limit on most parts of its highways, Germany has an excellent system of motorways. They are generally well-maintained, inviting you to explore them. The minimum age for obtaining a driver's license used with a legal guardian present in Germany is 17. An unrestricted car driver's license can be granted at age 18. According to statistics by ADAC, Germany's national automobile association, traffic jams increased by around 15 percent in 2016 as compared to the previous year. That's a lot for a relatively small country. The increase resulted from both more cars on the highway, and more construction sites. So brace yourself for more time and stress in the car, especially around big cities. Even when you think you're soaring down the autobahn, you may get the distinct impression it's still not fast enough. Some German drivers may drive right up behind you and try to "push" you over. They may even flash their headlights to rattle your nerves. You aren't supposed to block the "fast" lane — the aim being to only use it for passing. But don't let pushy drivers bully you! Watch out for speed cameras! They are used widely in Germany, from the autobahn to inner city areas. These box-shaped devices are installed next to the road, and will often catch you unawares. Should you be driving over the speed limit, a ticket will be sent to your house, complete with a picture of you at the wheel and the license plate confirming your offense. Holding a cell phone in your hand while driving is an absolute no-no. If caught, you could be fined 100 euros ($124) and get a one-point penalty against your driver's license. Penalties spike up if you cause an accident, and you may have your license revoked. Fines were raised in 2017. Investing in a hands-free car kit is smarter. Penalties also apply to bicyclists using their cell phones. The same thing goes for not making way for emergency vehicles. Once traffic jams up, you are required to create a lane for ambulances and police, even before you see the flashing lights behind you. If not, you could be fined at least 200 euros (around $250) and get points on your license. The emergency lane is always between the far left and the rest of the lanes. You are also required to set up a warning signal should you break down or have an accident. This means placing an orange metal triangle on the road, donning a fluorescent jacket, both of which you must have in your car. You must also have a first-aid kit stored in your vehicle. In Germany, there's zero tolerance for beginners, as well as for professional drivers. There's a 0.05 percent blood alcohol content (BAC) limit to driving under the influence. Bicyclists may not exceed 0.16 percent. Penalties start at a €500 ($623) fine, points off your license and even a one-month license suspension. Best bet: don't drink and drive! Snow tires are required once streets become slick with slush, ice or snow. In Germany, the rule of thumb is that this can occur anytime between October and Easter. Should you not have snow tires installed on your car and still drive on slippery streets, you could be fined and have points taken off your license. Without proper snow tires, your insurance may also not cover an accident. To navigate both the German autobahn and city streets, the best approach is a zen one: take your time and don't let yourself get frazzled. Besides, with an expansive train and public transportation system in the country, you might not even want to hop into your car, but board a train and put up your feet! Author: Louisa Schaefer Every evening, DW's editors send out a selection of the day's hard news and quality feature journalism. You can sign up to receive it directly here.