Leaders of the European Union's member states on Thursday struggled to break the deadlock over the bloc's key leadership positions. Heads of government were gathered to decide on five top jobs — most notably who should succeed Jean-Claude Juncker as the next president of the European Commission, the EU's executive branch. But despite talks extending into the early hours of Friday, the leaders deferred any decision on the posts until June 30. "There was no majority on any candidate," said EU Council President Donald Tusk. "The European Council agreed that there has to be a package reflecting the diversity of the EU." Juncker himself said he was confident that a solution would be found, although the task would not be easy. "I don't expect that. But it has to be done," said Juncker. Favorite to replace Juncker is German EU lawmaker Manfred Weber, whose center-right European People's Party (EPP) is the largest grouping in the European Parliament. However, the EPP lost seats in last month's European elections, making it more difficult to form a majority in parliament that would be in favor of the Bavarian. Read more: Manfred Weber: Merkel's pick to head European Commission Ahead of the meeting, German Chancellor Angela Merkel and French President Emmanuel Macron said they were in favor of a delay to avoid any hasty decisions being made. After the meeting, Merkel expressed concern that there appeared to be no clear majority in favor of Weber in the European Parliament, which must still ratify the appointments. "It is a finding that presents us with challenges, of course, that is clear," Merkel said, stressing the importance of a "balanced" package of appointments that would find agreement. "Under no circumstances do we want a crisis with the parliament." The center-right European People's Party (EPP) — the largest faction in the European Parliament — has picked Manfred Weber, its German parliamentary party leader. He has the backing of Chancellor Angela Merkel. Though considered the front-runner, Weber is little known on the international stage, and his language skills are considered poor. Frans Timmermans, the European Commission's first vice president, will lead the campaign for the Progressive Alliance of Socialists & Democrats (S&D). Weber's main rival promises to bring the bloc closer to ordinary voters at a time when Britain's looming exit is one factor behind the nationalist movements across the EU. Margrethe Vestager, 51, is one of seven lead candidates for the Alliance of Liberals and Democrats. As the current EU commissioner for competition, the Danish MEP has taken on corporations like Apple, Amazon and Google parent Alphabet. It's also been said that she served as the inspiration for the main character in Borgen, a Danish series where a woman becomes Denmark's first female leader. The third-largest group in the EU Parliament, the European Conservatives and Reformists (ECR), has just one candidate: Jan Zahradil, chairman of the Czech ECR delegation. Zahradil, 65, is affectionately known as "Forrest Gump" for cycling from Prague to Strasbourg for a session of the European Parliament and for once running 1,300 kilometers (about 800 miles) across the Czech Republic for charity. The Greens/EFA is the seventh largest group in European Parliament, so the German is a long shot to become European Commission president. The Greens have proposed a job share, with two candidates serving for two-and-a-half years each. The most favorite to join Keller is Dutch lawmaker Bas Eickhout. The EU's left-wing groups will be headed by Spanish trade unionist Nico Cue and Violeta Tomic (at left). Tomic is a deputy in Slovenia's National Assembly, best known as a TV presenter and actress. She entered into politics in 2014 and has been an advocate for LGBT rights and stronger citizens' rights in Europe. Cue grew up in Belgium after his family was forced to flee Franco's Soain. Author: Keith Walker What other roles are up for grabs? EU leaders must decide on successors to Tusk, and to Federica Mogherini, the bloc's foreign policy chief. They'll also be choosing a new head of the European Central Bank (ECB) to replace current incumbent Mario Draghi, and the successor to Antonio Tajani, the president of the European Parliament. Why is it proving so difficult? The process of choosing people for the top jobs is far from straightforward. According to Irish Prime Minister Leo Varadkar: "It's quicker to elect the pope, very often, than it is to fill these particular positions." Because of the complexity, the process is often criticized for the horse-trading that takes place behind closed doors, and the length of time it takes. It involves both the European Parliament and member states: Several elements need to be considered to find a solution that will satisfy everyone. Party politics: There's keen competition between the conservative EPP, the Socialists, free-market liberals and even the Greens, to ensure their concerns are reflected by different EU institutions. Read more: No new dawn for far right in European election With the European parliament more divided than ever after mainstream parties lost ground at the European elections, smaller groupings can now exert more influence, making the process of negotiation more complex. Nationality: While leaders of EU institutions are not supposed to show favor to their home countries, national pride still plays a role when the top appointments are made. Individual governments are keen to press for their own politicians — provided they are of a similar political hue — to be at the helm. Gender: The leadership of the EU reflects the domestic politics of member states, with men taking most of the top roles. Macron and Tusk are among those demanding that at least two women be chosen for the most important jobs this time around. Geography: Ideally, there should also be a mix of large member states – like Germany and France — and smaller ones such as Juncker's Luxembourg. The package should also reflect the diversity of the bloc. At present, it's a little lopsided with three out of the five roles filled by Italians. rc/aw (AFP, AP, dpa) Each evening at 1830 UTC, DW's editors send out a selection of the day's hard news and quality feature journalism. You can sign up to receive it directly here.