Guatemalans head to the polls on Sunday to vote in a crowded presidential election, with nearly 20 candidates vying for the office. Despite tens of thousands of Guatemalans fleeing their country to seek refuge in the US, mass migration has not topped the candidates' platforms. Instead, campaigning has been dominated by the themes of gang violence, poverty and corruption. Guatemala has one of the highest homicide rates in the world, with 22.4 murders per 100,000 people. For its citizens, ending gang violence and alleviating widespread poverty are a priority. One of the top candidates, ex-attorney general and anti-corruption campaigner Thelma Aldana, was barred from running due to allegations of irregularities during her stint as a public prosecutor. She has fled to the US, citing death threats. Voting in the town of San Jorge, in the department of Zacapa, was suspended due to similar threats and violent incidents against electoral authorities. Zacapa has a strong presence of local drug cartels, and several of its leaders have been extradited to the US accused of drug trafficking. Clashes were also reported between rival supporters in other areas of the country. Read more: Fleeing poverty, violence in Central America: 'There is no other option' Sandra Torres has vowed to oppose abortion and same-sex marriage No clear winner Center-left candidate Sandra Torres, a businesswoman and former first lady, is expected to win the first round, with polls suggesting she could pick up more than 22% of the vote. Center-right candidate Alejandro Giammattei is expected to trail behind with only 11%. However, none of the 19 candidates are expected to gain enough votes to avoid a runoff, which would take place in August. Observers believe front-runner Torres could lose the runoff due to Giammattei's potential to unite the right. Around 40,000 police have been put on alert, while the military was deployed to safeguard key buildings across the country. Authorities have warned of possible outbreaks of violence in dozens of municipalities. Guatemalans will also be voting in parliamentary and municipal elections. It is the first time that citizens living abroad are allowed to vote, with polling stations set up across the US, in Los Angeles, New York and Washington, DC. Polling stations opened at  7 a.m. local time (1300 UTC) and will close at 6 p.m. local time (00:00 UTC, Monday) Read more: US cuts aid to three Central American countries over migration Every evening, DW's editors send out a selection of the day's hard news and quality feature journalism. You can sign up to receive it directly here. Send  Facebook   Twitter   google+   Whatsapp   Tumblr   linkedin   stumble   Digg   reddit   Newsvine Permalink https://p.dw.com/p/3KOyc ls/tj (AFP, AP)