At least nine people were killed and 16 others were injured in a mass shooting in the US city of Dayton, in the second mass shooting within 24 hours after a similar incident at a shopping center in Texas. The shooting took place in the historic Oregon District near downtown Dayton. Daily Dayton News reported that a man carrying a rifle opened fire at people outside a bar and attempted to enter the establishment before he was shot dead by police. Authorities later said the suspect was wearing body armor and had additional magazines for the .223-caliber rifle. Police responded to the shooting within one minute. "Hundreds of people in the Oregon District could be dead today" if police had not responded so quickly, Mayor Nan Whaley said. "We had officers in the immediate vicinity when this shooting began and were able to respond and put an end to it quickly," police said.  Authorities did not provide details of a motive, but identified the gunman as Connor Betts, a 24-year-old white male. Officials said the 22-year-old sister of the shooter was among the nine fatalities. Read more: 8 facts about gun control in the US 'Very tragic incident' Police Lieutenant Colonel Matt Carper described the shooting as "a very tragic incident" that police are doing "everything we can to investigate." "We're still interviewing obviously a lot of witnesses as well as officers to determine if anyone else was involved," said Carper. The FBI is assisting in the investigation. The mass shooting is the second of its kind within 24 hours. On Saturday, at least 20 people were killed when a 21-year-old male suspect opened fire at a Walmart in El Paso. Authorities are investigating the El Paso shooting as a case of domestic terrorism. Read more: US gun control: 'Conservatives must say enough is enough' Every evening, DW's editors send out a selection of the day's hard news and quality feature journalism. You can sign up to receive it directly here. In November 2018, a 28-year-old former Marine attacked a country dance bar outside Los Angeles, killing 12 people and wounding 10 others. The bar was holding a "College Night" and was packed with a young crowd. The gunman was found dead inside the bar, apparently he killed himself. Eleven worshipers were killed at the Tree of Life Synagogue in Pittsburgh in October 2018 while attending a baby naming ceremony. Six others were injured, including four police officers. The gunman is currently facing 29 criminal counts and could receive the death penalty. Police said he told officers that Jews were committing genocide and that he wanted them all to die. A 19-year-old former student of Marjory Stoneman Douglas High School in Parkland, Florida killed 17 of his fellow classmates in February 2018. For the first time in the US, survivors of a mass shooting came together to demand immediate action on gun control. The students founded March for our Lives, a nationwide student mass protest movement. A grudge against his in-laws led a 26-year-old man to attack a church in the small, tight-knit community of Sutherland Springs, Texas in November 2017. The shooter killed 26 people between the ages of 18 months and 72 years. The mass shooting prompted President Donald Trump to focus the issue of gun violence on mental health and away from gun ownership. In the deadliest mass shooting in US history, concertgoers were targeted at a country music festival in Las Vegas in October 2017. The shooter, a 64-year-old man with no criminal record, attacked from a room in the nearby Mandalay Hotel, killing 59 people and wounding more than 400. Authorities found 23 guns in the shooter's room. An Afghan-American with a deep hatred for homosexuals attacked a gay nightclub in the city of Orlando, Florida in June 2016. Using an AR-15 rifle, the gunman stormed the darkened hall and killed 50 partygoers. The shooting was condemned worldwide and brought attention to hate crimes against the gay community. The December 2012 shooting at Sandy Hook Elementary School in Newtown, Connecticut rocked the nation in its brutality. It was the first time children under the age of 8 had been directly targeted, with 20 of them dying. Mourning parents flew to Washington, DC to support President Barack Obama's background checks legislation. The law ultimately wasn't approved, despite an emotional national debate. In July 2012, a gunman opened fire during a movie screening in Aurora, Colorado, causing chaos and confusion. In the aftermath, 14 people were killed and 50 were wounded. The assailant attacked moviegoers as they were watching the latest Batman movie, The Dark Knight Rises. A student went on a shooting spree in a dorm and a class hall at Virginia Tech University campus in April 2007, leaving 32 people dead. The shooting turned the nation's attention to the National Rifle Association (NRA), the most powerful lobby group, which has fought to stop gun control laws. The 1999 assault in Littleton, Colorado, was the first school shooting to shock the nation. Two disgruntled students walked into their high school and opened fire with automatic weapons, killing 13 people. The attack would later become the subject of a documentary by filmmaker Michael Moore, Bowling for Columbine, that examined the causes of gun violence in the US. Author: Jenipher Camino Gonzalez ls/aw (AP, dpa)