You have to hand it to Jair Bolsonaro. He is shining an enormous spotlight on the Amazon rainforest. For a long time, environmentalists could only dream of garnering this much interest. When it comes to discussions surrounding the Amazon, Brazil's president is at the forefront where rhetoric is concerned. The rejection of international Amazon aid on the grounds that Europeans should start by reforesting their own woodlands hit home. After all, there is a reason why the German government is holding a national forest summit in September. Then add the colonialism argument to that. As soon as the president of Brazil, a former Portuguese colony, starts to mention the colonial era, he can be sure of his fellow Brazilians' sympathy. Whether or not French President Emmanuel Macron has the colonial mentality Bolsonaro accuses him of, colonialism is undeniably part of France's history. Read more: Amazon wildfires set to cause irreversible damage Military dictatorship the role model But beware: Bolsonaro's loose tongue will not protect the Amazon. To the contrary, it justifies its further destruction. It is pure hypocrisy. DW's Astrid Prange de Oliveira A self-proclaimed critic of colonialism, Bolsonaro has shown that very "colonialist mentality" since taking office. The blueprint for this attitude dates back to Brazil's military dictatorship era from 1964 to 1985. "The Amazon belongs to us" — back then, that was the motto when the generals forged ahead with developing still sparsely populated rainforest and securing the external borders against an alleged foreign invasion. Read more: Action, not outcry will save the Amazon Doing business with indigenous peoples Small farmers from the south of Brazil, including many settlers with German heritage, were lured into the jungle with the promise of free land. The Brazilian natives were placed under the guardianship of the government; the plan was to "assimilate" them. Bolsonaro is picking up where they left off. The former army captain is an avowed supporter of the military dictatorship. With his "colonialist mentality," he sees Brazil's natives as "people like us," people who should be familiarized with the benefits of "civilization" by sending in missionaries, businessmen, the military and other powerful groups in society. As far as Bolsonaro is concerned, indigenous people should also be allowed to cultivate soybeans, raise livestock and mine gold even in nature reserves or on reservations. Many are already doing so, as Brazil has no legal restrictions on indigenous people's career choices. Bolsonaro wants even more. He wants to "help" the indigenous people to open their territory to investors — legally that territory belongs to the Brazilian Federation and is not for sale. Just like in colonial times, this could mean that the indigenous people themselves benefit least from the riches on their land. Read more: The Amazon, nutrient-rich rainforests on useless soils Governors protest It is significant that the governors of the nine states of the Amazon region have spoken out against Bolsonaro's refusal of international aid. Unlike the Brazilian president, they are happy for every euro the international community invests in the rainforest. In view of the weakness of the Brazilian environmental authorities, Amazon state Governor Wilson Miranda Lima is convinced that the Amazon Fund is key. "We cannot do without this money," he recently told the Folha de Sao Paulo newspaper. The Amazon Fund set up by Norway and Germany finances, among other things, agricultural cooperatives, the designation of protected areas and ecotourism projects. This creates jobs that allow the local population to earn a living without clearing the forest. Creating jobs for the roughly 20 million inhabitants in the region is exactly what Bolsonaro claims to do, but it's something he actually undermines every day. Trotting out the notion of colonialism is not going to help: Bolsonaro's Amazon policy is the height of hypocrisy. The basin is often called Earth's second green lung. According to Weather Source, over 6,900 fires have been recorded in Angola and 3,400 in DR Congo this week; compared to over 2,000 in Brazil. But experts say it's difficult to compare. "Fire in Africa... is part of a cycle, people in the dry season set fire to bush rather than to dense, moist rainforest," said Greenpeace's Philippe Verbelen. Almost a million hectares (3860 square miles) of forest and farmland have been destroyed in Bolivia over the past few weeks by largely unchecked wildfires, with scientists and indigenous leaders already branding it the country's biggest disaster for biodiversity. Small farmers often practice the slash-and-burn method — known locally as chaqueo — as a quick and easy way to clear land. The start of the dry season has sparked Indonesia's worst annual fire season since 2015. A state of emergency has been declared in six provinces, including Sumatra and the Riau Islands. Like Brazil, Indonesia is home to some of our planet's oldest tropical forests, but large areas have been lost to agriculture or other commercial interests. A wildfire raged through the Spanish holiday island for over a week this month, threatening several parks rich in biodiversity and forcing thousands to evacuate. Spain is often threatened by massive forest fires, especially during the hot, arid summer months. Experts say climate change means these events will likely become more severe and frequent. Large swathes of land in Siberia have been engulfed by wildfires this season, prompting a state of emergency in four regions. Forest fires are a natural event in Siberia, but unusually warm weather this summer combined with strong winds meant a record 5.5 million hectares of forest was burning by mid-August, creating a cloud of smoke which covered a greater area than the EU! Greece is on high alert as hot, windy weather fuels dozens of fires across the country. Hundreds of people had to be evacuated from the holiday island of Samos. Fires in Greece are often blamed on people ignoring safety rules during severe weather conditions, such as throwing away lit cigarettes or barbequing outdoors. More than 100 people were killed in a wildfire outside Athens in July 2018. Australia is no stranger to bushfires. But they are becoming increasingly common even during the winter months thanks to warmer-than-usual temperatures. Tinder-dry conditions have forced some states to bring forward the start of the bushfire danger season to August 1. Between August 22 - 23 this year Australia recorded 768 bushfires — slightly higher than the number of blazes burning in Bolivia. Beginning on June 8, three wildfires in Central Arizona have burned through 14,000 acres of land. Wildfire season is usually quite active in Arizona due to its dry climate. Unless they pose a threat to human life, many fires are contained and managed rather than suppressed. On average, over 2% of the land has burned per decade since 1984 — a figure likely to increase as the climate warms. Author: Ineke Mules