Following the tragic deaths of two young children in a traffic accident, Austrian politicians are locked in a debate with bicycle advocates over safety measures for children on bikes. A 1-year-old and a 4-year-old died on Monday in a town outside of Vienna after a car hit the bike trailer that they were traveling in. The 39-year-old mother who was pulling the children behind her electric bike was also injured. Police said that the trailer was sent flying 15 meters (49 feet) into a nearby field and that the cause of the accident was still unclear. Both the mother and the 60-year-old driver of the car are being investigated on suspicion of involuntary manslaughter, reported Austrian newspaper Der Standard. Austrian authorities said they are still working to determine whether the trailer was properly lit and that neither child was wearing a helmet. Read more: More German bicyclists killed in traffic accidents in 2018 Until recently, the classic old bicycle would have been an obvious option for anyone wanting to get active outdoors. These days, however, there are a number of electric alternatives that require slightly less exertion. But e-bikes and e-scooters aren't always as eco-friendly as you might think, and can cause other problems too. The e-bike, an enhanced bicycle if you will, is probably the best-known electric alternative to regular bikes. The battery motor makes it move faster and is especially helpful on inclines. One problem: Because it makes biking less exhausting, more seniors who would normally not head out into the traffic anymore, ride e-bikes. That has lead to an increase in accidents. Another issue with e-bikes is the battery, the production of which requires a lot of natural resources. E-bikes run on rechargeable lithium batteries. Digging this metal out of the earth is no easy feat and requires large lithium mines. It's also a finite resource. In 2018, the world's remaining lithium reserves were estimated at 53.8 million tons. Electric modes of transportation don't emit CO2, but e-bike batteries have to be charged regularly. The same is true, of course, for batteries of e-scooters, e-skateboards monowheels, hoverboards, … See a trend there? The demand for electricity is growing and not all of it is met with energy from renewable sources. As companies keep coming up with cool new e-gadgets for us to buy, the number of batteries that need to be charged is likely to keep rising. In addition to regular e-bikes, there are even e-unicycles. Not into peddling? Then how about a hoverboard, inspired by cult classic "Back to the Future II"? E-scooters are similar to the scooters you might remember from your childhood. These new ones, however, don't rely exclusively on our feet to propel them forward, but on battery power. That makes them more eco-friendly than vehicles with a combustion engine, but many people only use them to travel the "last mile" from a bus stop or car park to wherever they're going. Up until now, zipping along the streets on an e-scooter was illegal in Germany. Because of their little "engine," you'd need certain permits for e-scooters (like a license for a car), but those weren't available. Starting in the summer of 2019, Germans will be allowed to drive e-scooters with a maximum speed of up to 20 kph (12 mph) on bike paths. In the US, that's been legal for a while. Author: Carla Bleiker Bike trailers 'have no business on the streets' Politicians with the far-right Freedom Party of Austria (FPÖ) called for investigations into accidents involving the child transporters, and have voiced support for a ban. "Bike trailers for children have no business on the streets," FPÖ politician Karl Baron said in a statement. "The FPÖ has been warning for years about the insufficient safety of bike trailers or cargo bikes to transport children on the road," added Baron, who is the party spokesperson for Vienna's transportation committee. Transportation Minister Andreas Reichhardt, also a member of the FPÖ, announced on Tuesday that the government is investigating data on child transport on bikes. The Austrian government wants to "look closely" at accident figures and safety regulations, a ministry spokeswoman told Der Standard. In Denmark's capital there is a 350-kilometer (217 mi) network of cycle paths, a traffic light system that prioritizes cyclists, and footrests on the roadside when you have to wait for a green light. No wonder, then, that 62 percent of the population cycle to work. The word "copenhagenize" has already become established in English to describe the transformation into bicycle-friendly cities. Amsterdam in the Netherlands is one of the most bicycle-friendly cities in Europe. Cyclists in Amsterdam cover some 2 million kilometers (approx. 1.24 million mi) a day. The country is popular with cyclists because it's very flat. In Utrecht, for example, you will find the largest bicycle parking garage with 12,500 parking spaces. It is expected to grow to 33,000 parking spaces by 2020. Antwerp in Belgium impresses with countless bicycle parking spaces and a good infrastructure. Here, too, a lot is " copenhagenized ". The bicycle rental system is to be expanded and covered cycle paths along the harbor as well as three bicycle and pedestrian bridges are to be built. What the city can still work on, however, is the high volume of traffic on the roads. In Paris, the city authorities have been systematically expanding the cycle network for years. On Sundays, entire streets are even closed to traffic. As a tourist, one can also easily mingle with the cyclists, as there are bicycle rental stations everywhere. This is also the case in Strasbourg. The city belongs beside Paris to the most bicycle-friendly city of France. Malmö in Sweden is investing a lot of money to improve its bicycle infrastructure. There are almost 500 kilometers (311 mi) of cycle paths with (air) pumping stations and right-of-way systems. A bike ferry between Malmö and Copenhagen is to boost cycling tourism. Probably the most creative idea is a bicycle hotel with its own workshop, rental bikes and bike parking directly in front of the rooms. Trondheim in Norway is a hilly city. The "Trampe", the world's first bicycle lift, provides a solution. The 130-meter-long (426 ft) lift takes up to 300 cyclists per hour up the mountain to the Kristiansten Fortress. A plate, on which you can stand with your right foot, is pulled along a rail. This plate then pushes the cyclist together with the bike up the hill. In Münster in Westphalia there are more bicycles than residents. It is therefore not surprising that Münster is the city with the most bicycle thefts in the Germany. But that doesn't discourage anyone from leaving behind their car and getting on a bicycle. Because there is no lack of comfort: wide cycle paths, enough parking spaces and no hills to climb. As early as 2002 you could ride your rental bike through Barcelona. 158 kilometers (98 mi) of cycle paths are available in the Catalan capital. 30 speed zones ensure more safety in city traffic. Tourists are also offered something special on a bike: various themed cycle paths lead through the city, to the beach or to the sights of the architect Antoni Gaudi. In Basel the land is flat and the distances are not far. The streets are particularly crowded during the Slow Up. During this event, which takes place in summer in different cities in Switzerland, the organizers block off around 30 kilometers (18.6 mi) in beautiful surroundings for cyclists and provide them with a wide range of activities along the route. That makes cycling fun! Author: Elisabeth Yorck von Wartenburg Activists urge more protections for bikes The FPÖ's proposals and articles criticizing the safety of bike trailers received pushback from safety experts and others on social media who urged expanded protections for bicyclists. "The fact is that the danger stems from those 1.5-ton vehicles traveling at 100 kph (62 mph) and not from child trailers," wrote Ulrich Leth, a transportation expert at the Technical University of Vienna, on Twitter. "The discussion must then revolve around minimizing the risk from cars," he added, suggesting speed limits as a possible solution. Ines Ingerle, a communications official with Austria's bicycle lobby, also took issue with the criticism leveled at electric bikes due to the accident. "Whenever a car driver is unsafe and hits a bike trailer, it doesn't matter whether it was being pulled along by an electric bike or one powered purely with muscle power," Ingerle told Der Standard. She urged for more security measures for bikes to move around safely, such as installing more bicycle lanes. Unlike in Germany, children under the age of 12 in Austria are required to wear helmets including while riding in a bike trailer. The trailers are also required to have sufficient lighting on the backs and sides that is separate from the bike, as well as seat belts and brakes. Every evening, DW's editors send out a selection of the day's hard news and quality feature journalism. You can sign up to receive it directly here. Send  Facebook   Twitter   google+   Whatsapp   Tumblr   linkedin   stumble   Digg   reddit   Newsvine Permalink https://p.dw.com/p/2iTmH