For many traditional fans, the world of esports may seem like a curiosity, dominated by tech-savvy teenagers. Yet there is undeniable hype and real growth in the industry, with the news of 16-year-old Kyle Giersdorf's triumph at the recent Fortnite World Cup gaining widespread global media attention. This weekend, the esports spotlight moves to the FIFA eWorld Cup, with 32 players from 15 countries competing for a first prize of $250,000 at the O2 Arena in London. Like much of the professional gaming industry, there is a stark gender bias at the event in the British capital, with all of the competitors men. This is despite some estimates suggesting that women make up about half of participants in the gaming world, and a significant proportion of online esports viewers. Read more: Compulsive gaming recognized as disease by WHO Koop Brandsma, manager of esports at Dutch club Ajax, which has a group of players at the FIFA tournament, confirms the game is heavily male-dominated, although his team remain on the lookout for talent, both men and women. "At the moment, esports reflects the traditional game of football," he tells DW. "There's an interest from a fan's perspective, and in terms of our online followers about 20% are women, but we haven't found an exceptional female player yet." The Ajax story highlights the emergence of esports in recent years, with Brandsma's team working directly alongside the leading Dutch club. "The game is definitely going to grow," he adds. "We've seen some resistance from parts of the football world, but esports is here to stay and that's also reflected by the interest of professional footballers in FIFA." Screens dominate the grand surroundings of London's O2 Arena 'Girls aren't good enough at FIFA' Former Ajax and current Barcelona wunderkind Frenkie de Jong is said to be an accomplished FIFA 19 player, having previously battled it out with Ajax esports star Dani, who made it to the knockout stages of this weekend's tournament before falling to a 6-3 defeat by France's Rafsou in the round of 16. One factor that may be deterring women from participating in online FIFA tournaments is the potentially toxic online environment created by a predominantly male audience. "Girls aren't good enough at FIFA — they don't like soccer," says one onlooker at the O2 event, who is part of a top player's entourage. "Women won't spend the 60 hours a week you need to play the game to get to the top," he adds. Send  Facebook   Twitter   google+   Whatsapp   Tumblr   linkedin   stumble   Digg   reddit   Newsvine Permalink https://p.dw.com/p/34bk1 However, Tim Katnawatos aka TheStrxngeR, who plays for Swiss esports team FC Basel, is more positive about the chances of women breaking through into the top echelons of the sport. "I hope that there will be more female players in a few years," he tells DW. "I know that esports clubs are encouraging more women to play the game." The German, who was knocked out at the group stages of this year's tournament, says a number of skills are required to become a leading esports FIFA player. "Concentration is so important, and you have to stay focused," he notes. "You also have to like football and have a knowledge of its tactics, as well as good reaction speeds." Katnawatos now plays FIFA exclusively — with the exception of a few games of Fortnite with friends — and his training regimen consists of up to 30 matches a day. Male competitors and fans heavily outweigh women at the O2 Arena Online audience in the millions While men dominate the playing side of the eWorld Cup, inside the arena there are a few more female fans, although they are still heavily outnumbered on the densely populated concourse. The majority of the crowd on Saturday are friends and family of the players, with around 3,000 spectators expected for Sunday's semifinals and final. The online audience will be much bigger; FIFA estimated that the 2018 competition generated more than 29 million views. Games at the tournament are fast and action-packed with a mass of TV screens filling the arena, as live commentary plays loudly over the background of a showpiece game. Matches are played across two legs, with players put into either Xbox or PlayStation groups before moving to the knockout stages. As Saturday's action drew to a close, pre-tournament favorite and last year's winner MsDossary continued his unbeaten form of the group stage to survive a late fightback against Megabit and win 4-3 in the last 16 tie. The Saudi competitor — who is hoping to become the first to win back-to-back FIFA eWorld Cup titles — then ensured his place in the final four by comfortably beating Canada's Goal Machine 8-3. He will be joined by Dani's conqueror Rafsou, Germany's MoAuba and Nicolas99fc of Argentina. Video games have come to embody much more than just an outlet for fun. Their intricate designs have created entire universes that can bring users from around the globe together both online and offline. As this fan base keeps growing, the Victoria & Albert Museum (V&A) in London is exploring these games as digital design objects in a new exhibition "Videogames: Design/Play/Disrupt." The exhibition has dedicated an entire room to the social and political dimensions of computer games, exploring the sensitivities the gaming industry can address in unique ways — and how it succeeds or fails at doing so. From gender and sexual identity to race to language, games have the power to allow people to walk in someone else's proverbial shoes. Some games push frontiers in current public debates, such as Mafia 3 (seen here), a game which pits a black protagonist against all sorts of social challenges including rampant racism, embodied by the Ku Klux Klan in the US. While some of the images in the game might be disturbing, they also provide an opportunity for gamers to interact with issues that continue to plague the real world. There are also a number of social issues that the gaming industry has to address offline. One of the most criticized aspects of video games is the fact that more than two-thirds of gaming executives around the world are straight, white men. Successful female designers from other ethnicities, like Jenny Jiao Hsia (seen here), are still in the minority. Some games take the design aspect of their narrative more seriously than others. The 2013 game Kentucky Route Zero (seen here) highlights mid-century architecture and brutalist design as part of its overall look and feels, somewhat like a film noir set in shades of blue. However, the popular game also features optical illusions and deals creatively with 3D graphics. Some video games go to imaginative extremes to fashion galaxies and planets for users to explore. No Man's Sky, released in 2016, is one of the games that allows enthusiasts to explore a science fiction narrative. Each planet has its own ecosystems with unique forms of flora and fauna, as well as different alien lifeforms on different planets. The possibilities in this game are truly endless. Video games are scrutinized from all angles to achieve the look and feel that their creators hope to create. At the V&A exhibition, an entire video wall focuses solely on the color testing of the game No Man's Sky. There are more than 18 quintillion planets for gamers to visit in this game. The massive gaming industry provides livelihoods to a fast-growing group of people around the world. Whether it's in the design process, coding, marketing or merchandising, video games have become an outlet of popular culture similar to Hollywood movies or the music charts. With easier access to video games, both audiences and developers are expected to keep growing in numbers. The exhibition's curator Marie Foulston (center) acknowledges that "Videogames: Design/Play/Disrupt" is not the first exhibition on computer games but the "first of its kind." "Design is the lens through which we are looking at video games," she says. "This is our curatorial language. We hope to challenge peoples' perceptions about why video games are this way." Video games have always had competitive elements, but these days esports attract enough fans to fill an entire Olympic Stadium. This image shows the final stage of the 2017 World Championships held at the Beijing National Stadium. Those competing at the highest level are celebrated like superstars in gaming circles. The new exhibition stands in stark contrast to the ornate Victorian buildings of the Victoria & Albert Museum in South Kensington, but is considered to be an extension of ongoing efforts of its Design, Architecture and Digital Department in archiving digital objects. "Videogames: Design/Play/Disrupt" at the Victoria & Albert Museum runs through February 24, 2019. Author: Sertan Sanderson