Texas police said a gunman has been shot dead by authorities following a spree in the neighboring cities of Midland and Odessa that resulted in at least five deaths and 21 more people injured on Saturday. "There is no active shooter at this time," Midland police said on Facebook. The gunman was described by police as a white male in his mid-30s. He was cornered by the police and gunned down at a local movie theater. Previously, authorities reported multiple gunshot victims in the area. At least three law enforcement officers were among the casualities, and a small child was also injured. Medical officials said at least seven people remained in criticial condition. Various branches of law enforcement, including police and sheriff's deputies, responded to reports of gunfire One attacker, two cars At a press conference, Odessa police chief Michael Gerke said the rampage started after a traffic stop, but said he was unable to shed any light on the suspect's motive. Later, authorities said the shooter had been pulled over after failing to signal a left turn. He then started shooting at the troopers who stopped him through the rear window of his car. One of the troopers had been wounded, and he is in serious but stable condition, authorities said. Police initially assumed there were two shooters involved in the attack, but later said it was likely one person travelling in two different vehicles during the rampage. The shooter targeted 'random people,' police said Authorities cited reports earlier on Saturday of an active shooter at a local Home Depot store. They also a postal truck had been hijacked. US President Donald Trump said he had been briefed on the shooting and added that FBI and other law enforcement agencies were "fully engaged." The latest shooting comes less than a month after a man killed 22 people in Texas city of El Paso, in an apparently racially motivated attack. dj/sms(AP, dpa, Reuters) Every evening, DW sends out a selection of the day's news and features. Sign up here.