Thousands of people from across Germany gathered in the eastern city of Dresden on Saturday, calling for tolerance and diversity in an area where the far-right has seen support swell in recent years. Some 20,000 people are expected to march in the demonstration, which was organized by the group "Unteilbar" (Indivisible). A similar protest in Berlin last year drew 250,000 people. "We want to show that there are more people on the side of solidarity than on the side of hate," protest organizers said in a statement ahead of the demonstration. Over 400 organizations and groups are taking part, including church representatives, labor unions, doctors and medical students, politicians, scientists, artists and climate activists. Protesters carried signs reading "No space for Nazis" and "Stop the AfD" Among the attendees were Finance Minister Olaf Scholz of the center-left Social Democrats (SPD), Greens co-leader Annalena Baerbock, and the heads of the Left party, Bernd Riexinger and Katja Kipping. No prominent members of Chancellor Angela Merkel's center-right Christian Democrats (CDU) were expected to attend the march. Saxony State Premier Michael Kretschmer said he objected to groups like Antifa taking part. Saturday's protest comes ahead of state parliament elections in Saxony and Brandenburg on September 1, and in the state of Thuringia on October 27. The far-right Alternative for Germany (AfD) has been polling on par with, or at times higher than, the parties in Merkel's ruling coalition, and is expected to make large gains. Send  Facebook   Twitter   google+   Whatsapp   Tumblr   linkedin   stumble   Digg   reddit   Newsvine Permalink https://p.dw.com/p/3OB4i Police deny AfD violence warning Ahead of the demonstration, the AfD's branch in Saxony warned in a Facebook post that authorities were concerned about Saturday's protest turning violent. Dresden police denied the AfD's report, describing it as a hoax. Authorities told local public broadcaster MDR they were expecting the protest to run peacefully. Since entering the German parliament following the general election in 2017, the AfD has shaken up national politics with its anti-immigrant and Islamophobic rhetoric. It's also sparked outrage for questioning Germany's culture of atonement for and remembrance of the Holocaust and other World War II atrocities. The far-right party's populist and nationalist message has appealed to some in eastern Germany who feel economically left behind following German reunification and wary of the arrival of more than a million asylum-seekers since 2015. Send  Facebook   Twitter   google+   Whatsapp   Tumblr   linkedin   stumble   Digg   reddit   Newsvine Permalink https://p.dw.com/p/3InY1 rs/aw (AFP, dpa) Every evening at 1830 UTC, DW's editors send out a selection of the day's hard news and quality feature journalism. You can sign up to receive it directly here.