Dozens of people have been wounded and many feared dead after a suicide bomb blast ripped through a wedding party on a busy Saturday night in the Afghan capital, Kabul, the Interior Ministry said. More than 1,000 people had been invited to the wedding, one witness said. Read more: Violence spikes in Afghanistan – is peace with Taliban a good idea? Interior Ministry spokesman Nusrat Rahimi told the Associated Press news agency that the attacker set off explosives among the wedding participants. "Unfortunately, the blast caused civilian casualties," Rahimi said. Specific information on casualties would be provided later, he wrote on Twitter in the early hours of Sunday. There was no immediate claim of responsibility for the blast, which went off in the men's reception area of the wedding hall in the western part of the city. Injured taken to hospital A Kabul emergency hospital said 20 wounded people had been brought in for treatment. "#Kabul #Afghanistan explosion in a hotel during a wedding party, about 20 patients arrived up to now at our hospital #masscasualty," the Italian-run Emergency hospital of Kabul said on Twitter. Afghan weddings are big and vibrant affairs, with hundreds or often thousands of guests celebrating inside huge wedding halls where the men are usually segregated from the women and children. Insurgent attacks on Afghan weddings have occurred in the past. Wedding venues are easy targets for attackers as they frequently lack rigorous security precautions. Read more:  Afghanistan's president rejects foreign interference Saturday night's explosion came a few days after the end of the Muslim holiday of Eid al-Adha and just before Afghanistan marks its 100th independence day on Monday. The explosion also occurred just as the US and the Taliban are widely expected to sign off on a deal that would see the exit of American troops from Afghanistan in return for various security assurances from the insurgents. US President Donald Trump has said since the start of his presidency that he wants American troops out of the war-ravaged country, where Washington has spent over $1 trillion on military operations and reconstruction since 2001. sri, law/kl (AP, Reuters, dpa) Each evening at 1830 UTC, DW's editors send out a selection of the day's hard news and quality feature journalism. You can sign up to receive it directly here.