When word of the border wall reached the Cameroonian capital Yaounde at the end of July, army chief Rene Claude Meka promptly set out to tour the 180-kilometer (111-mile) stretch. On the Equatoguinean side, locals had been informed that the border wall was intended to keep out West Africans wanting to enter the country without authorization. Meka talked on state radio of an "encroachment" and "expansionist ambitions"  that would not be tolerated, and anger began building among Cameroon's citizens. Reports of officials in Equatorial Guinea laying demarcation beacons near the town of  Kye-Ossi made matters worse. Wall 'would disrupt trade' When the government of Cameroon summoned Equatorial Guinea's ambassador Anastasio Asumu Mum Munoz to explain, he confirmed the plan. Munoz, however, dismissed Meka's allegation of enroachment and reports of demarcation as misleading. DW correspondent Moki Kindzeka says people in Cameroon are "very very angry" over the plan. Many regard Equatorial Guinea as a key business destination and young Cameroonians in particular travel there to seek jobs. Oil-rich Equatorial Guinea reports double-digit annual economic growth. "I feel very bad because goods will not come again to Cameroon and farmers won't sell again in Equatorial Guinea. What are they expected to do with their goods?" Kome Pascal, a cross-border merchant, told DW. Pascal sells foods and building materials in Gabon, where he buys wine for resale in Cameroon. Cameroon is a gateway for traders across central and western parts of Africa. It has measures in place to screen those wanting to exit its borders. In August 2019 alone, authorities have so far arrested more than 100 Togolese, Burkinabe, Ghanaian and Nigerian nationals who were bound for Equatorial Guinea and Gabon without the necessary documents. Equatorial Guinea's planned wall plan is being compared to President Trump's wish for a wall with Mexico Behind the wall The political instability in Cameroon in recent years has fueled the movement of people across borders to places such as Equatorial Guinea. Read more: Cameroon’s 'senseless spiral of violence' One Cameroonian woman who spoke to DW predicted that a border wall would slow economic growth in the two countries.  "But Cameroon will suffer most because it will be difficult for business people to import goods." Equatorial Guinea has often accused Cameroon of letting its citizens and West Africans cross into its territory illegally. The two nations are members of the Central African Economic and Monetary Community (CEMAC).  A border wall would undermine Equatorial Guinea's role in the six-member bloc which agreed to scrap visas  in 2017. Political analysts suggest there may be more to the border wall plan than meets the eye. "There was a problem in Equatorial Guinea because there was a coup, then the government had to protect itself and said it was suspending the visa-free agreement,” said  Christian Mbock, a lecturer at the National University of Equatorial Guinea. "It is a complex situation." Foreign nationals were accused of plotting to oust President Obiang in 2004 Coup survivor Equatorial Guinea's President Teodoro Obiang Nguema has been in power for 40 years, with his son Teodorin Obiang as deputy. Obiang is ranked as one of the wealthiest heads of state and is often compared to Ugandan dictator Idi Amin. Security has been a major priority for Obiang since a widely publicized international coup bid in 2004. The foiled attempt to unseat him involved a web of mercenaries and financiers from Britain, the US and Spain to South Africa, Zimbabwe and other places. Mark Thatcher, the son of the former British prime minister was among those implicated. In December 2017, dozens of foreign nationals were arrested on weapons charges at the border in Equatorial Guinea. The government said they were plotting to destabilize the country. Read more: Equatorial Guinea: UN dispatches envoy amid reports of failed coup Their nationalities were given as Chadian, Central African and Sudanese. They were carrying rocket launchers, rifles and a stockpile of ammunition. In the wake of the incident, Equatorial Guinea sealed its border with Cameroon for six months. The fall of the Berlin Wall on November 9, 1989, was a watershed moment in world history. It marked the end of the Cold War and division of Europe. But, whether according to nationality, religious or political beliefs, to this day walls continue to divide people around the world. Photographer Kai Wiedenhöfer documented eight of them, from Baghdad to Belfast. Snaking through the streets of Baghdad, the over three-meter-high (about 10 feet) wall that divides Sunnis and Shiites is not the only barrier in the Iraqi capital. Another imposing wall surrounds the government district. It is there for security purposes, but many Iraqis reject it. For them, the sight of wall is just another reminder of the fall of Iraqi society. The wall in Panmunjom may only be a few centimeters tall but it's almost impossible to overcome. It marks the border between the two Korean states. Communist North Korea is one of poorest nations in the world. Democratic South Korea is a highly developed industrial state. The border zone, around 250 kilometers (155 miles) long, not only divides two systems of government, but also many families. For 10 years now, Israel has been building a 700-kilometer-long, eight-meter-high wall to mark the border with the West Bank. For Israelis, the wall is there to offer protection from attacks. But it makes life tough for Palestinians. The international community has condemned the wall as a further hindrance on the road to peace in the Middle East. The fence marking the border between the European Union and African soil is six meters tall. It divides the Spanish enclaves of Ceuta and Melilla from Morocco and with that, above all, two very different standards of living. The barrier hasn't deterred many refugees from risking the journey to Europe. Many people continue to die while attempting to cross the border. Since the beginning of the Troubles in Northern Ireland, seven-meter-tall walls, the so-called peace lines, divided the city of Belfast. The conflict officially ended with the Belfast Agreement in 1998 though religious tensions between Catholics and Protestants remain. The peace lines are now somewhat of a tourist attraction in the city. The US may still be known to some as the "Land of the Free" but the border with Mexico remains heavily guarded. The so-called "Tortilla Wall" is supposed to stop illegal immigrants entering the country from Mexico and deter drug trafficking. Around 500 people die each year while attempting to cross the border. Hundreds of thousands of people, do, however, make it through. The wall that cuts across the capital Nicosia makes Cyprus the last divided nation in Europe. Since 1974, the wall separates the Greek part of the island from the Turkish north. Since 2003 it has been possible for residents to in both territories to visit the other. The open air exhibition "Wall on Wall" on the longest remaining section of the Berlin Wall runs through September 13, 2013. Author: Theresa Tropper / hw