At least 37 people have been confirmed dead after monsoon rains devastated the Indian states of Kerala and Karnataka. Evacuation efforts affected roughly 22,000 people and authorities closed Cochin International Airport, in the southern state of Kerala, on Friday. The rains also caused 20 landslides across the state; authorities fear a number of people are trapped under the mud. Kerala Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan said, "All arrangements have been put in place to deal with the disaster." The Indian government plans to fly in rescue equipment by helicopter, he added. Read more: Poor preparedness caused flood disaster in India In 2018, Kerala was hit by floods reported to be the worst in a century Devastation of local infrastructure Those rescued have since been transported to over 300 emergency camps set up elsewhere in Kerala. The flooding is expected to continue in the coming days. Vijayan warned that they might have to open dam gates soon, in order to prevent the water from reaching dangerous levels. States across India have been badly affected by floods in the last week — at least 38 people have been reported dead and 200,000 moved to safety in the western states of Goa, Maharashtra and Karnataka. Experts have warned that deforestation and increasing urbanization were at fault for the rising waters, as well as bad management of  dams across India. A man rescues a drowning man as monsoon rains cause flash floods and landslides in the southern Indian state of Kerala. More than 200,000 people have been forced to take shelter in relief camps. Witnesses say that looking down on towns in flooded Kerala is like looking down on a sea dotted with houses and cars in muddy flood waters. Rescue teams, including military personnel, have stepped up efforts to evacuate thousands of people trapped by the waters. People are being evacuated after authorities opened the gates of Idamalayar, Cheruthoni and Mullaperiyar dams to prevent potentially disastrous breaches. Authorities have taken the unprecedented step of opening the floodgates of 80 water reservoirs so far. Hundreds of troops have led a desperate operation to rescue families trapped by rising floods. Helicopters have been used to airlift stranded victims from rooftops and to drop food and water packages in the worst-affected areas. Heavy rains over the past eight days triggered flooding, landslides and home and bridge collapses, severely disrupting air and train services in Kerala state, a popular tourist destination. Landslides have also contributed to the death toll. Monsoon rains kill hundreds of people every year in India. The season runs from June to September. Kerala has been hit with 37 percent more rainfall than normal since the beginning of this monsoon, the Meteorological Department said. With heavy rains stopping after a week, rescuers moved quickly to take people marooned by floods to 1,500 state-run camps. With the weather department expecting rains to continue into the weekend, the state remains on high alert. Fuel and water shortages Officials warned that fuel shortages were widespread in districts that were cut off from larger cities. They also said that hundreds of villages in Maharashtra lacked drinking water and electricity. Floods hit Kerala in 2018. More than 200 people were killed in the disaster last August, which affected over 5 million Indians. jns/msh (Reuters, AFP) Each evening at 1830 UTC, DW's editors send out a selection of the day's hard news and quality feature journalism. You can sign up to receive it directly here.