Turkey's government on Monday suspended the mayors of Diyarbakir, Mardin and Van over alleged links to the banned Kurdistan Workers' Party (PKK). The PKK seeks greater cultural, linguistic and political rights for Kurdish people, having abandoned calls for an independent Kurdish state over a decade ago. Many Western countries — including Germany — and the European Union consider the PKK to be a terrorist group. All three suspended mayors are members of the pro-Kurdish Peoples' Democratic Party (HDP) and were elected in mayoral elections in March. Read more: Death and destruction in Diyarbakir Water canon deployed The country's interior ministry said the mayors were being investigated for "spreading propaganda" or being a member of a terrorist organization, and would be replaced by the centrally-appointed governors of their provinces. The mayors' dismissals drew widespread criticism, including from Ekrem Imamoglu, the newly elected mayor of Istanbul, who said on Twitter: "Ignoring the will of the people is unacceptable." Police deployed water canon to disperse hundreds of protesters gathered outside Diyarbakir's municipality to denounce the action against the mayors. After years of free market reforms, Turkey's transition slowly begins to reverse. Islamist Abdullah Gul's candidacy as president in 2007 marks a clear shift away from secularist policies, and strains relations between the ruling AKP and the military. However, with broad support from both conservative Muslims and liberals, the AKP wins the parliamentary elections and Gul is elected president. Then-Prime Minister Recep Tayyip Erdogan tables a constitutional reform increasing parliamentary control of the judiciary and army, effectively allowing the government to pick judges and senior military officials. The amendment, which is combined with measures also aimed at protecting child rights and the strengthening of the right to appeal, passed by a wide margin in a public referendum. Pent-up anger directed by young people at Erdogan, Gul and the Islamist-rooted AKP hits a boiling point in May 2013. The violent police breakup of a small sit-in aimed at protecting Istanbul's Gezi Park spurs one of the fiercest anti-government protests in years. Eleven people are killed and more than 8,000 injured, before the demonstrations eventually peter out a month later. A fragile ceasefire deal between the Turkish government and the Kurdish rebel PKK group breaks under the weight of tensions aggravated by the war in Syria. Military forces resume operations in the mostly Kurdish southeast of Turkey. In early 2016, the Kurdistan Freedom Hawks (TAK) — a breakaway PKK faction — claim responsibility for two bombings in Ankara, each killing 38 people. A military coup attempt against the government shakes Turkey to its core and briefly turns the country into a war zone. Some 260 civilians die in overnight clashes with the army across five major cities. Erdogan, however, rallies supporters and the following morning rebel soldiers are ambushed by thousands of civilians on the Bosporus Bridge. The troops eventually drop their guns and surrender. In the aftermath of the failed coup, Erdogan announces a state of emergency, leading to arrests of tens of thousands of suspected coup sympathizers and political opponents. Among those detained are military and judiciary officials and elected representatives from the pro-Kurdish HDP party. The purge is later expanded to include civil servants, university officials and teachers. As part of Erdogan's crackdown against supposed "terrorist sympathizers," Turkey becomes one of the world's leading jailers of journalists, according to Reporters Without Borders. The government shuts down around 110 media outlets in the year following the coup and imprisons more than 100 journalists, including German-Turkish correspondent Deniz Yücel. With a referendum on expanding Erdogan's presidential powers set for April 2016, AKP officials look to galvanize support among Turks living in Europe, particularly in Germany and the Netherlands. However, the Netherlands forbids Turkish Foreign Minister Mevlut Cavusoglu from landing in the country, while Germany opts to cancel two rallies. Erdogan accuses both countries of Nazi-style repression. Erdogan narrowly wins the referendum vote expanding his power. As a result, Turkey's parliamentary system is abolished in favor of a strong executive presidency. Erdogan is also allowed to remain in power potentially until 2029. However, international election monitors claim that opposition voices were muzzled and that media coverage was dominated by figures from the "yes" campaign. Erdogan secures a new five-year term and sweeping new executive powers after winning landmark elections on June 24. His AKP and their nationalist allies also win a majority in parliament. International observers criticize the vote, saying media coverage and emergency measures gave Erdogan and the AKP an "undue advantage" in the vote. Author: David Martin Read more: Kurds in Germany: Fear is in the air 2016 crackdown The actions echo a similar crackdown in 2016 when a Turkish court arrested the co-mayors of Diyarbakir. Gulen Kisanak and Firat Anli were accused of giving speeches sympathetic to the PKK two years earlier. Police were forced to use rubber pellets to break up several hundred protesters who rallied against the arrest of the two local politicians. The government accuses HDP politicians of links to the PKK, and Turkish President Recep Tayyip Erdogan regularly brands them terrorists and traitors. The HDP insists it advocates Kurdish rights and democracy through legal, political means. Separately, police on Monday also detained 418 people suspected of links to the PKK in separate operations in 29 provinces, Turkey's state-run Anadolu Agency reported. kw/rc (AP, AFP) Read more: Turkey sacks thousands of police officers, soldiers over 'national security' concerns Send  Facebook   Twitter   google+   Whatsapp   Tumblr   linkedin   stumble   Digg   reddit   Newsvine Permalink https://p.dw.com/p/3M7S4 DW sends out a daily selection of the day's news and features. Sign up here.