An out-of-control wildfire on the popular Spanish holiday island Gran Canaria has forced 9,000 evacuations, and the fire has now reached a natural park, authorities said on Monday. "It's a huge forest fire, extremely serious, which happened in a heatwave," and it is still not under control, Canary Islands President Angel Victor Torres told reporters. "This is an environmental tragedy." Altogether, 1,000 firefighters and other crew and 14 water-dropping helicopters and planes were working to control the blaze, which is estimated to have destroyed 10,000 hectares (24,700 acres), according to emergency services. Read more: The global heat wave that's been killing us Around 9,000 people have been evacuated from Gran Canaria. Tourism unaffected The blaze is the third in 10 days and has so far affected the mountainous central part of the island rather than coastal areas popular among tourists in the summer months. In a statement, the Canary Islands government said the tourism industry on Gran Canaria remained unaffected "given that the fire is confined to upland areas," with no resorts impacted and no flight delays. The Canary Islands is a major tourist destination. It received 13.7 million foreign visitors last year, with more than half of them from the UK and Germany. Fire enters natural park Lourdes Hernandez, a wildfires expert at the World Wild Fund for Nature (WWF), told French news agency AFP  that the blaze had entered the Tamadaba natural park, an untouched pine forest that represents "the main green lungs of the island." The Tamadaba natural park is particularly difficult area for firefighters to intervene in. The fire is also threatening the Inagua nature reserve, another area of major biodiversity. "Tamadaba is lost, we can't enter," firefighter chief Carlos Velazquez told reporters."When (weather) conditions begin to change that is when we can begin to control the fire," he added. EU air support is backing up Greek firefighters on the ground as the massive blaze on the island of Evia enters its third day. Hundreds of people were evacuated from villages on the Greek island of Evia when the fire began on Tuesday. Just hours after the fire broke out on Tuesday, smoke was already traveling west, shrouding the Akropolis in Greece's capital, Athens, over 80 kilometers (50 miles) away. The suburbs of Athens were hit earlier in the week by a wildfire, with authorities ordering evacuations as homes burned. Over the weekend, the island Elafonisos, just south of the Peloponnese peninsula, was also on fire, forcing the evacuation of vacationers. Earlier in the week, a fire raged on Gran Canaria, burning up over 1,500 hectares and sending hundreds of people fleeing. Fires in eastern Russia burned up over 1 million acres of woodland earlier in August. Though forest fires are common in Siberia, there is no precedent for the scale of this summer's. Not even Germany was spared from this summer's wildfires. A former military training grounds caught ablaze in July, requiring the labor of scores of firefighters. Author: Milan Gagnon law/ng (AFP, AP, Reuters) Each evening at 1830 UTC, DW's editors send out a selection of the day's hard news and quality feature journalism. You can sign up to receive it directly here.