Greenland's government on Friday dismissed the idea of being purchased by the United States. The statement follows reports that US President Donald Trump was interested in buying the territory from Denmark. What the government said: A "short comment" on the government website said that: Greenland holds a number of world records. It is the world's largest island, the least densely populated territory on Earth, and home to the only permanent ice sheet outside Antarctica. Most of its 56,000 residents are Inuit, descendants of those who migrated there from what is now Canada in the 13th century. Greenland was granted home rule by Denmark in 1979. In 2008, Greenlanders voted in favor of an act that granted their government even more power. Before being a Danish territory, Greenland has also been under the Norwegian crown, and was even briefly claimed by Portuguese explorers in 1499. Seen here in the capital, Nuuk, where about one third of Greenlanders live, is "Santa's mailbox." Thousands of letters addressed to St.Nicolas were delivered here every around Christmas each year. Some volunteers even sent handwritten responses to as many children as they could, until the mailbox was forced to close in 2018. Greenlanders were among the first to feel the affects of climate change, both from rising sea levels and melting arctic ice. Recently, scientists recorded a massive ice melt on the island that hadn't been predicted to occur until 2070. If the all of Greenland's ice disappears, sea levels will rise 23 feet, destroying massive amounts of coastal areas worldwide. A sign in Greenland warns travels to be aware of passing muskoxen, famous for the intense odor sometimes by males. They are native only to Greenland, northern Canada, and Alaska. After centuries of declining populations due to overhunting, muskoxen have recently been making a comeback due to new hunting restrictions. Much of Greenland's economy is dependent on fishing. One controversial form of fishing that is still allowed is seal hunting, often done by shooting seals that are sitting on ice sheets. Although it is widely accepted that the killing of seals could lead to extinction and other disasters for the ecosystem, some rural Greelanders entirely depend on hunting seals for their livelihood. In some parts of Greenland, there are no roads, and locals must use dog sleds to get from village to village or to the sea. Snowmobiles must be important and are too expensive for many villagers. Author: Elizabeth Schumacher Trump asks aides to 'look into the idea' The Wall Street Journal reported on Friday that Trump asked his aides to look into the possibility of purchasing Greenland. The US leader is poised to visit the Danish capital Copenhagen in September. A source close to the president later told The Associated Press that Trump did make the request but that he wasn't serious. Greenland's ministry of foreign affairs insisted the island was ready to talk business, but was not for sale. "#Greenland is rich in valuable resources such as minerals, the purest water and ice, fish stocks, seafood, renewable energy and is a new frontier for adventure tourism," it tweeted. "We're open for business, not for sale." Where is Greenland? The world's largest island is home to just 57,000 — mostly Inuit — people. It lies between the North Atlantic and Arctic oceans. It is an autonomous Danish territory, with Copenhagen in charge of foreign affairs, defense and monetary policy. Why buy Greenland? Greenland is an autonomous country that forms part of Denmark. Some 80% of the country is covered by a permanent ice sheet. The island has snagged the attention of global superpowers like the US, China and Russia due to its mineral resources and strategic location in the North Atlantic and Arctic oceans. Not the first time: This wouldn't be the first time that the US tried to buy Greenland. In 1946, the US offered to pay $100 million to Denmark to buy Greenland after considering swapping portions of Alaska for portions of the Arctic island. Send  Facebook   Twitter   google+   Whatsapp   Tumblr   linkedin   stumble   Digg   reddit   Newsvine Permalink https://p.dw.com/p/3G6nI rs/rt (dpa, AP) Every evening at 1830 UTC, DW's editors send out a selection of the day's hard news and quality feature journalism. You can sign up to receive it directly here.