Israel on Friday reversed its decision to refuse US congresswoman Rashida Tlaib entry to the Israeli-occupied West Bank. The interior ministry said Tlaib, who is of Palestinian origin, would be allowed to visit her grandmother on "humanitarian" grounds. The ministry said the U-turn followed a written pledge by the US lawmaker "to respect conditions imposed by Israel." Banned over boycott support Send  Facebook   Twitter   google+   Whatsapp   Tumblr   linkedin   stumble   Digg   reddit   Newsvine Permalink https://p.dw.com/p/3NzRo Tlaib and fellow Democrat lawmaker Ilhan Omar were barred from entering Israel on Thursday over their support forboycotting the country in a Boycott, Divestment Sanctions (BDS) movement. The pair are the first Muslim women elected to the US Congress and among the most critical of Israel's treatment of the Palestinians. They were due to arrive in Israel at the weekend to visit Jerusalem and the Palestinian territories. Israel's decision sparked widespread criticism, including from Israeli and Jewish organizations who said it was unacceptable to bar members of the US Congress. Personal letter Following the ban, Tlaib petitioned the Israeli government to allow her to visit her family "specifically my grandmother, who is in her 90s and lives in Beit Ur al-Fouqa." "This could be my last opportunity to see her," Tlaib wrote, adding: "I will respect any restrictions and will not promote boycotts against Israel during my visit." The ministry said it hoped Tlaib would stick to her pledge. Israel passed a law in 2017 banning entry of activists including Jewish supporters of the BDS movement, arguing it is anti-Semitic and a threat to the country's existence. BDS supporters argue it is a non-violent movement similar to the anti-Apartheid struggle in South Africa in response to Israel's military occupation of the West Bank and illegal settlement building. US President Donald Trump, meanwhile, has openly clashed with Tlaib, Omar and two other Democratic congresswomen over Israel and their "leftist" policies in a bid to rally the conservative Republican base ahead of the 2020 elections. Send  Facebook   Twitter   google+   Whatsapp   Tumblr   linkedin   stumble   Digg   reddit   Newsvine Permalink https://p.dw.com/p/3Fgsf Each evening at 1830 UTC, DW's editors send out a selection of the day's hard news and quality feature journalism. You can sign up to receive it directly here.