The third-largest typhoon on record struck China's eastern coast early Saturday morning, killing at least 18 people and forcing the evacuation of over a million residents, state media reported. Typhoon Lekima made landfall in the eastern province of Zhejiang with maximum winds of 187 kilometers per hour (116 miles per hour), bringing with it waves several meters high, downing thousands of trees and sending torrents of muddy water into the streets. The storm was moving northwards at a speed of 15 kilometers per hour and gradually weakening, Xinhua News Agency reported, citing China's weather bureau. On Friday the bureau had issued a red alert, the highest level weather alert, ahead of the storm's landing. This was lowered to orange on Saturday, as the storm began to weaken and was downgraded from its prior classification of "super" typhoon. Typhoon Lekima brought strong winds and powerful rains, which disrupted air and rail traffic in eastern China and caused flash flooding Deadly landslide triggered However, the storm still managed to cause significant disruption and damage. A landslide triggered by the typhoon killed at least 18 people and left 14 missing, state TV reported. The landslide took place in the municipality of Wenzhou, in Zhejiang province, when a natural dam-like build-up of earth broke. "Torrential rains caused a landslide on a mountain that blocked a river below," state TV said. When the "dam" created by the blocked earth broke, the water swept downstream. Read more: Chinese landslide kills 15, 30 still missing Ahead of landfall, over a million people were evacuated from their homes in eastern coastal areas, state media reported, and over 2 million households in Zhejiang experienced blackouts due to strong winds and rain cutting electricity lines. Fallen trees cut power to many homes in Zhejiang province Some train services between Zhejiang and northern China were also disrupted, and hundreds of flights at various airports were reportedly canceled. Typhoon Lekima also forced the closure of Shanghai Disneyland. The storm is predicted to continue weakening as it moves northwards, reaching Jiangsu province by the early hours of Sunday morning and continuing out into the Yellow Sea, before reaching Shangdong province, state TV broadcaster CCTV reported. Authorities have warned of more flash floods, mudslides and landslides. Prior to reaching China, the storm had forced flight cancelations and business closures on the island of Taiwan. Last September Typhoon Mangkhut hit mainland China, causing the evacuation of more than 2 million people. cmb/amp (AP, Reuters) Super typhoon Mangkhut brought hurricane-force winds over 200 kilometers per hour (124 miles/h) to Hong Kong and the neighboring gambling hub of Macau, before making landfall in China. Three people were killed by falling trees in the southern metropolis of Guangzhou. Mangkhut also felled trees, tore scaffolding off buildings under construction and flooded some areas with waist-high water. A person died when a building collapsed in Dongguan, according to the National Disaster Reduction Center of China. The typhoon brought Hong Kong to a standstill, injuring more than 200 people. The South China Morning Post said Hong Kong's hospitals had to use backup power due to outages caused by the storm. Residents of Hong Kong were told to stay away from the coastline and be on alert for occasional gales. Bus, ferry and rail services were suspended and almost 900 flights were canceled at the city's airport. Travel in Hong Kong remains difficult on Monday. Macau, meanwhile, shut all 42 casinos for the first time as the territory bore the brunt of the typhoon. Electricity supply was cut off in low-lying areas and as streets were flooded, citizens fled to temporary shelters. Author: Keith Walker DW sends out a selection of the day's news and features. Sign up here.