Some 183 nations are set to discuss possibly loosening elephant and ivory exports at the World Wildlife Conference on trade in endangered species, known as CITES, which is meeting in Geneva, Switzerland. Representatives that signed the 1973 Convention on International Trade in Endangered Species are set to take part in the conference. It opens Saturday and runs through August 28, with key decisions expected in the final two days. Conservationists have warned of "unprecedented" species declines due to mankind's exploitation of the planet's fauna and flora. "Business as usual is no longer an option," CITES Secretary General Ivonne Higuero said at the start of the meeting, warning that "nature's dangerous decline is unprecedented." Among the 56 proposals to change, mostly to strengthen, the level of protection among vulnerable or endangered species is one that would loosen restrictions on elephant and ivory exports, a debate that has divided African nations. Send  Facebook   Twitter   google+   Whatsapp   Tumblr   linkedin   stumble   Digg   reddit   Newsvine Permalink https://p.dw.com/p/3O2hj Several countries in southern Africa support an end to a ban on ivory and rhino horn exports, saying the animal populations have increased to the point of warranting a rule change. They also argue that hunting and trophy trade is important income for local communities. Among the backers is Zambia, which has argued that its population of African elephants have stabilized at about 27,000 and wants to allow for ivory stockpile sales as well as exports of hunting trophies, hides and leathers. However, 10 other countries, all but one of them African, want total protection for elephants from international ivory trade, arguing that a loosening of ivory restrictions could lead to poachers. Israel has also proposed tougher regulations on the legal trade of mammoth ivory, also known as "ice ivory." Mammoth ivory trade has become a booming business, and the convention will have to determine whether products from the long-extinct species should be covered by CITES. Elephant and mammoth tusks are almost indistinguishable to the untrained eye, and illegal traffickers of elephant tusks have tried to pass it off as "ice ivory." CITES bans trade in some products entirely, while allowing for the trade of some endangered species provided it doesn't hurt their populations in the wild. Customs officials around the world who inspect shipments of plants and animals across borders know to watch out for the CITES logo, a seal of approval that the trade of the items are legitimate. Bonobos in the Democratic Republic of Congo are on the cusp of extinction. 40 years ago they numbered around 100,000. Today, only around 20,000 individuals remain. Humans are the biggest threat to their survival. Young apes are caught and sold as pets, while bonobo meat is sold for high prices in markets. They are also losing their habitat due to the clearing of forests. All of world's remaining bonobos live in DR Congo — specifically in the Congo Basin, a huge area almost three times the size of France. The region is bordered by several rivers, including the Congo. Because bonobos can't swim, they have never left the basin. Up to 98% of the bonobos' DNA is identical to that of humans. Bonobos are more closely related to us than to gorillas and even chimpanzees. Unsurprisingly, there are many similarities between bonobos and humans. But there are some significant differences, too. For example, bonobos can suffer from diseases like HIV/AIDS. But they are immune to malaria. The bonobos' unspoken motto is "make love, not war." Whenever possible, the species avoids any kind of fight. If ever a situation with conflict potential arises, bonobos seek social reassurance by embracing and sharing instead of fighting — often through sex or sexual contact. Bonobo society is also dominated by females, which contributes to a more peaceful environment. The world's only protected area for orphaned bonobos is called "Lola ya Bonobo," which translates to "Bonobo Paradise." It is located south of the Kimwenza community on the Petites Chutes de la Lukaya waterfalls near Kinshasa. It was founded in 1994 by Belgian conservationist Claudine Andre to provide care to bonobos orphaned by illegal trafficking before reintroducing them into the wild. Psychological care is just as crucial as physical treatment. Newly-arrived bonobos are often traumatized by the loss of their mothers. More than one orphan has passed away due to stress. To avoid this, infant bonobos are handed over to a surrogate human mother, who gives them love and reassurance. Infants require this kind of intensive care until they are around four years old. The natural reserve in Equateur Province is twice the size of Manhattan, comprising 20,000 hectares of primary forest. It is known locally as "Ekolo ya Bonobo", which means 'the land of the bonobos.' Over 60 bonobos live on the 75 hectares of primary tropical forest where the Lola ya Bonobo sanctuary is based. Here, rescued bonobos are reared and cared for if they are sick. They are then prepared for a life of freedom in a reserve together with other bonobos. Lola ya Bonobo has released two groups of orphans back into the wild since 2009. Over 30,000 people visit the sanctuary every year. Most of the visitors are Congolese school children. They are the future decision makers. If anyone can save bonobos, it will be them. The guardians of the bonobos are the local people, the Ilonga Po. Author: Silja Fröhlich dv/jlw (AFP, AP, dpa) DW sends out a daily selection of hard news and quality feature journalism. Sign up here.