On Friday, Pakistani Foreign Minister Shah Mahmood Qureshi visited Beijing as part of Islamabad's efforts to draw global support against the Indian government's decision to scrap Kashmir's special status. Read more: Kashmir lockdown — an uneasy calm prevails Beijing is opposed to New Delhi's Kashmir move, especially its decision to carve the Ladakh region out of Jammu and Kashmir state and administer it federally. The Chinese government spokesperson called the move "unacceptable" and said that it would help Pakistan in defending "its legitimate rights and interests" in the Kashmir region. Qureshi claimed that China "offered complete" support to Pakistan, should Islamabad take the matter to the UN Security Council. On Sunday, India's Foreign Minister S Jaishankar arrived in Beijing on a pre-scheduled three-day visit. China, on Monday, insisted that India needs to play a "constructive role" for regional peace and stability. China has historically sided with Pakistan on regional matters, but Beijing's backing is important for both Islamabad and New Delhi. Kashmir is claimed in its entirety by both India and Pakistan, although both countries only control parts of it. The territory has been an ongoing dispute since both became independent countries in 1947. Today, India has de facto control over about 45% of the region and the majority of its population, while Pakistan controls around 35%. But the remaining 20% is actually under the control of China. Read more: Kashmir: The world's most dangerous conflict China claims about 90,000 square kilometers (35,000 square miles) in the Indian state of Arunachal Pradesh, referred to informally by some Chinese as "Southern Tibet." India, on the other hand, claims sovereignty over 38,000 square kilometers (15,000 square miles) of the Aksai Chin plateau. As the two most populous nations in the world, India and China have competing and unresolved territorial claims. The disputes have occasionally flared up, leading to minor border skirmishes. Read more: What ails India-China relations? "China is always opposed to India's inclusion of the Chinese territory in the western sector of the China-India boundary into its administrative jurisdiction," said the Chinese foreign ministry spokeswoman, Hua Chunying, following India's Kashmir move. "Recently India has continued to undermine China's territorial sovereignty by unilaterally changing its domestic law," Hua added. "India's action is unacceptable and would not have any legal effect." Read more: India stripped Kashmir of autonomy to end separatism, Modi says Territorial dispute China, which has a long border with Jammu and Kashmir, has been involved in Kashmir tensions in the past. In 1962, China occupied a part of India that borders Kashmir — and entered into an alliance with Pakistan. Today, China and Pakistan trade via the newly constructed Karakoram Highway, which connects the countries via the western Kashmir region. As part of the multibillion-dollar China-Pakistan Economic Corridor (CPEC) project, this former gravel road is currently being developed into a multi-lane asphalt highway that can be used all year long. China is investing $57 billion (€51 billion) in Pakistani infrastructure and energy projects, more than in any other South Asian country. The economic alliance with its powerful neighbor has helped solidify Pakistan's claims to the Himalayan foothills. Some analysts say that New Delhi's decision to directly govern Ladakh is a geopolitical move. Sameer Patil, a researcher at the International Security Studies at Gateway House, an Indian foreign policy think tank, told DW that Chinese influence in Ladakh has been increasing over time, largely due to its economic incentives in the area. At the same time, according to Patil, the region has suffered due to a lack of interest from the Indian government. "Indian Prime Minister Narendra Modi's decision has been guided by both administrative and geopolitical factors. New Delhi was concerned that Ladakh wasn't receiving attention, which allowed China to increase its clout there," Patil said. Read more: Opinion: India's government is playing with fire Modi has thus designated the Ladakh region as a "Union Territory," which will allow New Delhi to rule the region by implementing the central government's directives. But publicly, India has tried to downplay this factor. Prime Minister Modi's government has said that the new designation is aimed at addressing Ladakh's development needs. "China expected India to resolve the territorial dispute by implementing new border mechanisms between the two countries and not within India's domestic framework alone," Patel said, adding that Modi's Kashmir move will naturally irk Beijing. Send  Facebook   Twitter   google+   Whatsapp   Tumblr   linkedin   stumble   Digg   reddit   Newsvine Permalink https://p.dw.com/p/3NMzG China too occupied with other problems But Narayani Basu, a New Delhi-based author and foreign policy expert, believes that the Kashmir crisis won't have a huge impact on Sino-India relations. "China, at the moment, is dealing with a number of domestic and global issues, so it cannot solely focus on Kashmir," Basu told DW, referring to Beijing's woes in Hong Kong and Taiwan, as well as its ongoing trade conflict with the United States. "There will be diplomatic posturing from both sides, but any major fallout is unlikely," Basu added. This situation only makes things more difficult for Pakistan, which has so far not received the kind of international backing over Kashmir that it has been looking for. Following Modi's decision to scrap Kashmir's special status, Washington said its policy toward the region has not changed. Russia and the United Arab Emirates backed New Delhi's move. Saudi Arabia, another Pakistan ally, has also not supported Islamabad over Kashmir. "China, although sharply critical of India, has said that the responsibility for maintaining peace in the region lies with both India and Pakistan. Diplomatically, it has put the onus on both Islamabad and New Delhi," Basu said. Read more: China protests visit of Indian PM Modi to disputed border state Will economic relations take precedence? Indian Foreign Minister Jaishankar has emphasized in Beijing that both China and India need to play a stabilizing role in the time of global uncertainty. Analyst Basu believes that the China-India ties are unlikely to be derailed in the aftermath of Modi's Kashmir move. "Both Indian PM Modi and Chinese President Xi Jinping have shown the maturity to compartmentalize their relationship in a way that disputes do not overshadow areas of cooperation. Hence, while there will be diplomatic posturing, nobody should expect more than that," he underlined. But analyst Patil thinks that China could use the Kashmir issue to pressure India on economic and trade issues. Foreign Minister Jaishankar's China visit is followed by Modi's possible visit to Paris for the G7 Summit by the end of this month. In October, Chinese President Xi is slated to visit India for an informal summit with Modi. Read more: Kashmir: Security concerns to limit economic gains from loss of special status On February 27, Pakistan's military said that it had shot down two Indian fighter jets over disputed Kashmir. A Pakistani military spokesman said the jets were shot down after they'd entered Pakistani airspace. It is the first time in history that two nuclear-armed powers have conducted air strikes against each other. The Pakistani military has released this image to show that Indian warplanes struck inside Pakistani territory for the first time since the countries went to war in 1971. India said the air strike was in response to a recent suicide attack on Indian troops based in Jammu and Kashmir. Pakistan said there were no casualties and that its airforce repelled India's aircraft. Some Indian civil society members believe New Delhi cannot exonerate itself from responsibility by accusing Islamabad of creating unrest in the Kashmir valley. A number of rights organizations demand that Prime Minister Narendra Modi's government reduce the number of troops in Kashmir and let the people decide their fate. On February 14, at least 41 Indian paramilitary police were killed in a suicide bombing near the capital of India-administered Kashmir. The Pakistan-based Jihadi group, Jaish-e-Mohammad, claimed responsibility. The attack, the worst on Indian troops since the insurgency in Kashmir began in 1989, spiked tensions and triggered fears of an armed confrontation between the two nuclear-armed powers. Since 1989, Muslim insurgents have been fighting Indian forces in the Indian-administered part of Kashmir - a region of 12 million people, about 70 percent of whom are Muslim. India and Pakistan have fought two of their three wars since independence in 1947 over Kashmir, which they both claim in full but rule in part. In October 2016, the Indian military has launched an offensive against armed rebels in Kashmir, surrounding at least 20 villages in Shopian district. New Delhi accused Islamabad of backing the militants, who cross over the Pakistani-Indian "Line of Control" and launch attacks on India's paramilitary forces. The security situation in the Indian part of Kashmir deteriorated after the killing of Burhan Wani, a young separatist leader, in July 2016. Protests against Indian rule and clashes between separatists and soldiers have claimed hundreds of lives since then. In September 2016, Islamist militants killed at least 17 Indian soldiers and wounded 30 in India-administered Kashmir. The Indian army said the rebels had infiltrated the Indian part of Kashmir from Pakistan, with initial investigations suggesting that the militants belonged to the Pakistan-based Jaish-e-Mohammad group, which has been active in Kashmir for over a decade. Indian authorities banned a number of social media websites in Kashmir after video clips showing troops committing grave human rights violations went viral on the Internet. One such video that showed a Kashmiri protester tied to an Indian army jeep — apparently as a human shield — generated outrage on social media. Those in favor of an independent Kashmir want Pakistan and India to step aside and let the Kashmiri people decide their future. "It is time India and Pakistan announce the timetable for withdrawal of their forces from the portions they control and hold an internationally supervised referendum," Toqeer Gilani, the president of the Jammu and Kashmir Liberation Front in Pakistani Kashmir, told DW. But most Kashmir observers don't see it happening in the near future. They say that while the Indian strategy to deal strictly with militants and separatists in Kashmir has partly worked out, sooner or later New Delhi will have to find a political solution to the crisis. Secession, they say, does not stand a chance. Author: Shamil Shams