US border protection authorities released 300 migrants from detention on Thursday, one day after the country's largest immigration raid in a decade. The raids against some 680 immigrants in Mississippi left many children at home with no parents. Immigration and Customs Enforcement (ICE) spokesman Bryan Cox did not provide an explanation for why some people were released and others were not, though he did mention "humanitarian factors" in a statement sent via email to the press. "They were placed into proceedings before the federal immigration courts and will have their day in court at a later date," Cox wrote. Read more: US mass deportations would lead to 'tremendous human rights abuses' Buses arrive throughout the day at the McAllen, Texas, bus station with immigrants released from Immigration and Customs Enforcement (ICE) detention centers and allowed to stay in the US while their cases are processed. Between October 2018 and March 2019, about 268,044 immigrants were detained at the border, according to US border authorities. Once off the Homeland Security bus, immigrants wait for a border patrol agent to hand them over to a volunteer from the Catholic Charities of the Rio Grande Valley (CCRGV). Due to the high number of families crossing the border and the scale of the humanitarian crisis overwhelming the US government, civilian organizations have mobilized to help immigrants at the Texas-Mexico border. At CCRGV's Humanitarian Respite Center, people can eat, shower and sort themselves out before traveling to friends or family who will host them while they await immigration court hearings. Up to 800 immigrants arrive at the center each day. "Neither political side in the US appears to have an answer," says Brianna Trifiletti, a helper at the center. "The solution has to come in Central America." Once immigrants secure a bus ticket — typically bought by a contact in the US — they are taken back to the Greyhound station. Here volunteer Melanie Domingez uses a US map to indicate to immigrants — many of whom only speak an indigenous language — where they need to change buses. "It's busy but also rewarding as I was an immigrant once," Domingez says. "I feel it is my place to be here." East of McAllen, stretching for miles along the border, is a wall built in the 2000s. Then the number of immigrants apprehended at the border — mostly single men — averaged 81,550 per month. Now the average is 32,012 per month and the dilemma is a different one as those coming are mostly immigrant families with young children, who are harder to detain and process. The Rio Grande acts as the Texas portion of the US border with Mexico. "Every week I hear about another drowning," says Jennifer Harbury, who works with people fleeing violence in Central America. "A mother paid the smugglers to take her and three children across on a raft. It hit some turbulence and her two-year-old fell in. The boat man said, 'We don't stop mid-river,' as the child went under." At the Mexican end of the International Gateway Bridge, which links the cities of Matamoros and Brownsville, immigrants check lists giving the order in which people will be allowed to cross and approach the US side. This so-called "metering" of immigrants is one of several new policies introduced by the Trump administration that many argue contravenes both US and international asylum laws. At another bridge, a Nicaraguan mother and daughter wait, hoping they can claim asylum. One factor in the US immigration debate is whether those coming should get asylum, meant for people fleeing persecution rather than economic hardship. "I had a job as a civil engineer, but I still came here," says 27-year-old Erving from Nicaragua. "We are fleeing violence, it's not about trying to find jobs." Back at McAllen's Greyhound bus station, 9-year-old Valeria from Honduras waits for the bus that will take her and her family north. Immigrants tend to be in good spirits once they have rested and been fed at the CCRGV center. "But there is still fear," says a Honduran woman. "I don't know if after my court hearing I will be able to stay, or whether I will be deported." Author: James Jeffrey 'Devastating' The raids on Wednesday were mostly focused on factories and food plants in rural Mississippi. Koch Foods, many of whose employees were caught up in the raids, issued a statement saying that all employees are verified through a government database to ensure that they have residency permits. A resident of Morton, where the Koch Foods plant was located, said it was "devastating" to see what the authorities‘ actions did to the immigrants' children. "It was very devastating to see all those kids crying, having seen their parents for the last time," said Gabriela Rosales. "I need my dad and mommy," 11-year-old Magdalena Gomez Gregorio told local television channel WJTV. "My dad didn't do anything, he's not a criminal." Many political leaders publicly called out the timing, scale and harshness of the raids, particularly coming on the heels of the mass shooting in El Paso targeted at Hispanic immigrants. Senator Elizabeth Warren tweeted: "Just days after the massacre in El Paso, fueled by anti-immigrant rhetoric, the Trump administration carried out the largest ICE raid in more than 10 years—separating families and targeting communities of color." Former US Representative from Texas Beto O'Rourke, a vocal critic of the Trump administration's immigration policies, tweeted: "These children will go to sleep tonight with no idea when, or if, they'll see their parents again. This is being done in our name—and it's on all of us to end it." In response to criticism of the harshness of the raids, especially their effect on vulnerable children, US Attorney for southern Mississippi Mike Hurst said that immigrants " have to follow our laws, they have to abide by our rules, they have to come here legally or they shouldn't come here at all." A school superintendent for Scott Country said that more than 150 students were absent from school on Thursday, out of fear of being detained. Tony McGee described seeing the children's devastation on Wednesday had been for many teachers "by far the worst day they ever spent as an educator." es/kl (AP, AFP) Send  Facebook   Twitter   google+   Whatsapp   Tumblr   linkedin   stumble   Digg   reddit   Newsvine Permalink https://p.dw.com/p/3MEV6 DW sends a daily selection of hard news and quality journalism. Sign up here.