Sixteen-year-old Swedish climate activist Greta Thunberg arrived in New York City on Wednesday after traversing the Atlantic Ocean on a zero-carbon emissions vessel. The teen refused to fly there to make a statement about the carbon emissions caused by airplanes. Instead, she opted to make the transatlantic journey carbon-free by sailing on the Malizia II, a 60-foot (18-meter) yacht featuring solar panels and electricity-producing underwater turbines. Thunberg sailed to New York to attend the UN Climate Action Summit on September 23, where she is scheduled to give an address. It is the first time she has brought her environmental message to the United States. Read more: Fridays For Future in the US: A small but determined movement The climate activist is best known for spearheading weekly student strikes aimed at pressuring governments into taking major steps to curb CO2 emissions and halt climate change. She initially started by demanding immediate action outside Sweden's parliament. As she set foot in Manhattan, Thunberg was greeted by a crowd of a few hundred supporters chanting her name. Of her 14-day journey, in rudimentary conditions where she only had a bucket for a toilet, she said it was "surprisingly good." "I did not feel seasick once," the teen said, adding that she did look forward to warm meals and to relax for a couple of days. "It is insane that a 16-year-old had to cross the Atlantic Ocean to make a stand," Thunberg said. When asked about whether she could be the one to persuade US President Donald Trump to act on climate change, the teen expressed little hope. "My message for him is listen to the science and he obviously doesn't do that," Thunberg said. Bold action required Following her US visit, Thunberg will head to Canada and Mexico. She will then set off for Chile to attend the UN Conference of the Parties (COP 25) climate summit, using a combination of trains, buses and possibly more sailing. Thunberg has urged European countries, including her native Sweden, to do more in combating climate change. In April, she urged the European Parliament to take bold action to address the global crisis. "Our house is falling apart and our leaders need to start acting accordingly because at the moment they are not," she said. "If our house was falling apart, you wouldn't hold three emergency Brexit summits and no emergency summit regarding the breakdown of the climate and the environment." Read more: Is Sweden's no-fly movement just media hype? Earlier this year, Germany and several other European countries logged the highest temperatures they had ever recorded. Scientists have pointed to abnormal temperature increases as further evidence of the man-made destabilization of Earth's climate system. Global efforts to reverse climate change have dragged, with major CO2 emitters such as the US failing to take part in international accords to reverse the potentially catastrophic trend. Every evening, DW's editors send out a selection of the day's hard news and quality feature journalism. You can sign up to receive it directly here. A return flight from Germany to the Maldives (8,000 km each way; about 5,000 miles) has an effect on the climate equivalent to releasing more than five tons of carbon dioxide per person, Germany's Environment Agency (UBA) says. A mid-range car would release the same amount after driving 25,000 km. Flying at high altitudes releases more than just carbon dioxide. Condensation trails turn into thin and wispy 'cirrostratus' clouds, which, depending on the position of the sun and the earth's surface, can cool or warm the ground beneath it. Nitrogen oxides released from planes into sunlight also contribute to the greenhouse gas ozone, which warms the planet. Our daily lives warm the planet. Heating, electricity, clothing and food all form part of our carbon footprints. To limit global warming to 1.5 degrees celsius, UBA recommends each German emits about a ton of carbon dioxide in total — regardless if through flying or eating sausages. Air traffic doesn't just hurt the global climate — it also has local effects. The sound of aircrafts flying low overhead makes people more at risk of heart attacks, for example. Children who live near airports struggle to concentrate. And local air quality suffers from pollutants such as nitrogen oxides. Flying is subsidized more than other modes of transport. Aviation kerosene, which is used as jet fuel, is not taxed in the EU. In Germany, cross-border flights are exempt from value-added tax. Through that, the government waived more than €4.7 billion of tax revenue in 2012, according to the latest data by UBA. The costs of air travel are often subsidized on the ground. Taxpayers' money is often spent on building new airports, a form of indirect subsidy. And budget airlines such as Ryanair have come under fire for saving money through imposing poor working conditions on their staff. Only about 20% of the world population has ever flown. According to climate justice movement Stay Grounded, a minority of highly mobile people who are rich and educated cause 70% of all greenhouse gas emissions caused by flying. Author: Jeannette Cwienk (an) ls, jcg/sms (AP, Reuters)