Brazilian President Jair Bolsonaro on Friday promised to send in troops to fight wildfires in the country's Amazon rainforest, blaming dry weather for this year's spike in outbreaks. Bolsonaro said his government was very aware of the situation and will fight "environmental crime" the same way it combats other types of crime, amid accusations that he had turned a blind eye to illegal deforestation by farmers and land grabbers in the region. The military will "act strongly" to control the blazes, the president promised, as he signed the decree that states the armed forces will collaborate with public security and environmental protection agencies. "The protection of the forest is our duty," he said. "We are aware of that and will act to combat deforestation and criminal activities that put people at risk in the Amazon." Fires are a regular occurrence during the yearly dry season but environmentalists blamed this year's jump on farmers increasingly clearing land for pasture. World leaders react Bolsonaro's reaction came as international criticism mounted  over his failure to protect the Amazon, nicknamed "the lungs of the planet." The 64-year-old had previously described rainforest protections as an obstacle to Brazil's economic development. On the eve of the G-7 summit in Biarritz, France, world leaders agreed that the environmental crisis must take precedence on the agenda, with Bolsonaro's governance coming under increasing scrutiny. Germany, France and Ireland on Friday threatened to tear up a European Union trade deal with the South American Mercosur group of countries because of Brazil's policies in regards to the Amazon. The Irish leader, Leo Varadkar, described Bolsonaro's attempt earlier this week to blame the fires on environmental groups — without evidence — as "Orwellian." However, the Brazilian head of state retorted that the blazes in northern Brazil should not be a "pretext" for international sanctions. Meanwhile, US President Donald Trump said his country was on standby to help, should Brazil require it. Trump tweeted after speaking with his Brazilian counterpart: "If the United States can help with the Amazon rainforest fires, we stand ready to assist." Four times the number of forest fires have burned so far this year in the Amazon compared to the whole of 2018, Brazil's National Institute for Space Research says. Ranchers and loggers are responsible for setting most of them as part of efforts to clear land for cattle. Environmental groups say land deforestation has increased dramatically since President Jair Bolsonaro took office in January. Satellite images show the true scale of the deforestation over large swathes of difficult-to-reach tropical rainforest. Bolsonaro is facing intense international pressure to tackle the fires. The Brazilian president has blamed indigenous tribes, small-scale farmers and even global NGOs — without evidence. On Friday, he said he was considering deploying the army to help put out the fires. Brazil's dry season is helping the blazes spread more quickly. In the country's Amazonas state, heat from forest fires has been above average every day throughout August. To step up the pressure on Brazil, Norway and Germany have halted donations to Brazil’s Amazon support fund. France has even mooted the idea of blocking an EU trade deal with South American nations. Brazil isn't the only country involved in deforestation. Peru, with the second-largest expanse of Amazonian forest, is also seeing a growing problem. Illegal gold miners have been accused of causing irreversible environmental damage to more than 110 square kilometers (42 square miles) of forest and river basins through the liberal use of fertilizers. Brazil's other neighbors Bolivia and Paraguay have also struggled to contain forest fires. About 7,500 square kilometers (2,900 square miles) of land has been affected in Bolivia. The country has even deployed a Boeing 747-400 SuperTanker carrying 76,000 liters (20,000 gallons) of retardant, a substance used to stop fires. As well as political pressure, the sheer scale of the wildfires has sparked public protests against Brazilian interests around the world, including the country's embassy in Nicosia, Cyprus. The Amazon is billed as the "the lungs of the planet," as the rainforest produces about a fifth of the total oxgyen needed for life on earth. Author: Nik Martin Outrage from indigenous leader World leaders were not alone in reacting to Bolsonaro's approach to the wildfires. Raoni Metuktire, a leading campaigner against deforestation in the Amazon and chief of the Kayapo people, condemned the Brazilian president. "He wants to finish with the forest, with us. It's really terrible what he does," Raoni told AFP by telephone from Germany, accusing Bolsonaro of emboldening farmers, loggers and miners. "We have to get him out soon." Raoni Metuktire, has long been outspoken on environmental issues and sustainable development jsi/se (dpa, AFP, AP, Reuters) Every evening at 1830 UTC, DW's editors send out a selection of the day's hard news and quality feature journalism. You can sign up to receive it directly here.