Bayern Munich left the world in no doubt about their primary transfer target this summer, with their very public — and ultimately doomed — courting of Manchester City winger Leroy Sane. But one wide player was never likely to be enough for a squad with only two senior wingers. "We have lost three players in attack in Frank Ribery, Arjen Robben and James (Rodriguez) and so far have no new signings there," said Robert Lewandowski recently, helpfully summing up the situation for his bosses. Even so, the signing of Ivan Perisic from Inter Milan, initially on loan, will inevitably be seen by some as something of a climb down. Rather than one of Germany's best young talents, the champions have ended up with a 30-year-old with significant pedigree but without the profile to set the pulses racing for some of the club's fans. Big game player Is that fair? As always, time will be the best judge, but the Croatian certainly ticks a lot of boxes. He's powerful, direct and experienced while goals in the 2018 World Cup semifinal and final demonstrate his ability to perform in the sort of high-pressure games Bayern will inevitably face as the season progresses. Ivan Perisic scored Croatia's first goal in their World Cup final defeat With the Bavarians' first league game now less than a week away, the speed at which Perisic should be able to integrate will also have played a part in the move, reportedly a €5 million loan with an option to buy for €20 million. Perisic is familiar with the Bundesliga, having spent two seasons each at Borussia Dortmund and Wolfsburg between 2011 and 2015 and will presumably be comfortable with the language and culture too. "It's a wish to have everyone on board as early as possible, but it's not easy today, every club is exposed to market movements, but I see no problem integrating them in time," Kovac said about potential new arrivals on Saturday. Kovac's compatriot The arrival of Perisic will be perceived as a victory for Kovac. His compatriot was a key figure when the Bayern boss coached Croatia in the 2014 World Cup and reportedly the choice of Kovac, rather than sporting director Hasan Salihamidzic, CEO Karl Heinz Rummenigge or club president Uli Hoeness. Perisic celebrates a goal for Dortmund in 2012 With that internal political victory will come responsibility, and Perisic could well serve as a bellwether of Kovac's ability to judge a player. But Kovac clearly trusts the new man and with Serge Gnabry and Kingsley Coman both having had injury concerns in pre-season, having an alternative is key. With an aerial threat and physicality that neither Gnabry or Coman possess and a degree of comfort playing as a second striker, Perisic gives Bayern further tactical flexibility. He may not be the most exciting signing but Perisic has the tools and the experience to improve Bayern's squad, if not neccessarily their first XI. That part may come in the next few weeks. Robben's talent came to the attention of the football world at PSV, but it was Chelsea where he really established himself as a star in the making. At Stamford Bridge he won two Premier League titles, an FA Cup and League Cup in three fruitful years, mostly under Jose Mourinho. Robben left for Real Madrid, where he stayed for two years. However, it was at Bayern where he achieved legend status. Robben picked up silverware in his first season at Bayern, having signed in the summer of 2009 from Real Madrid. Secured under coach Louis van Gaal, it was to be the first of eight Bundesliga titles as Robben's career coincided with an unprecedented run of domestic success for the Bavarians. One thing missing from Arjen Robben's personal trophy cabinet is international silverware, but he came within touching distance at the 2010 World Cup. Having been the driving force behind the Netherlands' push to the final in South Africa, hero status beckoned when Robben was one-on-one against Spain goalkeeper Iker Casillas from the spot. Robben missed and Spain went on to win in extra time. Cutting in from the right and bending a shot inside the far post, Robben had one signature move and perfected it over the years. Defenders knew what he was going to do, but his speed, strength and close control often made him impossible to stop and cemented his reputation as one of the most effective "inverted wingers". For all of his obvious talents, Robben had a reputation for hitting the turf a little too easily. The (flying) Dutchman was once called him a "good diver" by Arsene Wenger after a particularly bad one against Arsenal. A quick internet search of "Robben diver" will offer some examples. You be the judge. When you think of Robben, you immediately think of Ribery. At their peak, the pair were the best wingers in Europe and have been a key part of Bayern's dominance during the past decade. If Robben didn't get you from the right, Ribery would from the left. Hence, the term 'Robbery'. Robben's finest moment not only in a Bayern shirt but in his career came in London in 2013. Facing their bitter domestic rivals Borussia Dortmund in European football showpiece event, Robben latched onto a flick by Franck Ribery and danced his way through the Dortmund defense to score the winner. The greatest moment of his career. Like Franck Ribery, the final league game of the season against Eintracht Frankfurt was to prove Robben's last in the Bundesliga. And like so many before, it ended in a Bayern win and a Robben goal. Having seen Ribery score six minutes earlier, Robben made sure he wasn't left out, and chalked up Bayern's fifth. That was his 99th Bundesliga goal, just one short of a century. Robben's final game in the professional game ended with silverware. The German Cup final against RB Leipzig on May 25 at Berlin's Olympiastadion proved to be the final hurrah as Robben, a 73rd minute substitute, bowed out at the top, confirming his decision to retire just over a month later. Author: Michael Da Silva