Hong Kong airport suspended check-in for all flights on Monday due to a massive protest that began in earlier in the day and disrupted operations in its arrivals terminal. "Other than the departure flights that have completed the check-in process and the arrival flights that are already heading to Hong Kong, all other flights have been canceled for the rest of today," the airport authority said in a statement. The arrivals hall swelled with demonstrators until there was standing room only. Thousands flocked to the airport to protest police brutality they said was committed during anti-government protests over the weekend. Demonstrators chanted that police should "return the eye" of a protester who was seriously injured by police. Many carried images of the weekend's protesters clashing with police or wore symbolic patches over their eye. The airport gathering marks the fourth consecutive day of demonstrations that have taken place in what is a major transportation hub in Asia Cathay bars staff from protests Hong Kong airline Cathay Pacific warned its staff on Monday that supporting "illegal protests" could result in being fired from the company. Cathay's announcement follows new rules imposed by Beijing banning airline staff members who have been involved in the Hong Kong protests from flying to or over the mainland The airline was forced to cancel over 150 flights last week as a result of a strike linked to the unrest and bookings have dropped since the protest movement began ten weeks ago. "Cathay Pacific Group has a zero tolerance approach to illegal activities," Chief executive Rupert Hogg said, in a message to the company's employees. "Specifically, in the current context, there will be disciplinary consequences for employees who support or participate in illegal protests," he added. "These consequences could be serious and may include termination of employment," Hogg stressed. jcg/tj (AFP, AP) Each evening at 1830 UTC, DW's editors send out a selection of the day's hard news and quality feature journalism. You can sign up to receive it directly here.