The UK's Brexit negotiators will start meeting twice a week with their European Union counterparts in September to ensure the UK will not crash out of the bloc without a deal in two months, the British government said on Thursday. The announcement comes after Prime Minister Boris Johnson sparked outrage with his decision to suspend Parliament while promising to take Britain out of the EU on October 31, even without a transition agreement in place. Johnson has demanded the current divorce deal be changed to remove the so-called Irish backstop, which outlines provisions on the Irish border. "While I have been encouraged with my discussions with EU leaders over recent weeks that there is a willingness to talk about alternatives to the anti-democratic backstop, it is now time for both sides to step up the tempo," Johnson said. Read more: Brexit: Does Boris Johnson's track record explain the man? Germany: No-deal Brexit likely Johnson's predecessor, Theresa May, had negotiated a deal with the EU, which was rejected three times in the House of Commons. German Foreign Minister Heiko Maas said Friday that he expects the UK to crash out of the EU — and that Germany is prepared for that scenario. "We cannot imagine reopening the Withdrawal Agreement," said Maas. "We assume that Brexit will happen on October 31. We will do everything to avoid a no-deal Brexit. But the British government has made it clear that if there is no agreement (on the Irish border) a no-deal Brexit will happen." Read more: Will Brexit be worse for women? 'Nothing credible' in backstop alternatives The EU and many British lawmakers support the backstop as a way to avoid creating a hard border between Northern Ireland, which is part of the UK, and the Republic of Ireland. Britain has said that technological alternatives to border checks could be in place in the event that future trade talks with the EU break down. Johnson's government has not provided any details of its backstop alternative, prompting skepticism from the EU. "We all want to get a deal but, at the moment, nothing credible has come from the UK government in terms of alternatives to the backstop," Irish Foreign Minister Simon Coveney told reporters in Brussels on Friday. Send  Facebook   Twitter   google+   Whatsapp   Tumblr   linkedin   stumble   Digg   reddit   Newsvine Permalink https://p.dw.com/p/3OgFh Parliament suspension challenged in court As Johnson pushes forward with renegotiating the Brexit deal, the prime minister is facing mounting backlash over his move to prorogue Parliament with just weeks to go until the October 31 deadline. Johnson's plans sparked protests as well as immediate legal challenges in High Courts in London, Edinburgh and Belfast. On Friday, the court in Edinburg rejected a request by opposition lawmakers to place an interim block on Johnson's plan to suspend Parliament, but said it would hear full arguments in the case next Tuesday. The case in Belfast's High Court will be heard on September 6 , while arguments for the case in London are also expected to take place next week. The suspension of Parliament is widely criticized as "undemocratic" and seen as a way for the government to stop lawmakers from blocking a no-deal Brexit. The British government has defended the move, saying it is simply a routine procedure and that it gives them more time to present their domestic agenda. Send  Facebook   Twitter   google+   Whatsapp   Tumblr   linkedin   stumble   Digg   reddit   Newsvine Permalink https://p.dw.com/p/3OibM rs/ng (Reuters, AFP, AP) Every evening, DW sends out a selection of the day's news and features. Sign up here.