Tens of thousands of protesters marched in central Hong Kong's Victoria Park on Sunday, after recent rallies were characterized by violent clashes with police. Despite the heavy rainfall, umbrella-ready protesters occupied a five-kilometer-long stretch road in the city on Sunday after the designated public park could not contain the large number of participants. Hong Kong's elderly and young children also joined in to express their anger over the government and police brutality. "Today is a day of peace," said organizer Bonnie Leung. "We can show the world that Hong Kong people can be totally peaceful." She added that police would be to blame if any chaos erupted. Read more: Hong Kong protests call for democracy, rally for China Police grants rally but not march through the city Organizers said they hoped to return to a peaceful event after past weekends saw violent clashes between police and more hardcore protesters. Police had granted approval for the rally but did not approve an accompanying march. Nevertheless, demonstrators filled the streets in central Hong Kong and said they were determined to show the government that they would not give up until their demands were met. "We will stand here; we will take action, until they respond to us. ... Together we have more power," said 20-year-old student, Harley Ho, undeterred by the heavy rain. Defending police actions Public transit trains did not stop on Sunday at stations close to the protest due to overcrowding. Hong Kong's government defended what human rights group Amnesty International called a "heavy-handed" response during previous protests. "Only when they were violently attacked and left with no choice did the police use minimum force to disperse protesters in order to restore social order," a Hong Kong government statement said. The statement added that 180 police officers had been injured in recent weeks and that officers have been "under tremendous work pressure" due to "long hours" and were only committed to maintaining law and order. Day of peace marks 11th week of pro-democracy protests The peaceful march marks the 11th week of protests against Hong Kong's extradition bill. Protesters are demanding the resignation of the city's leader, Carrie Lam, as well as fully democratic elections and an independent investigation into what they claim is police brutality against the protesters. You Wenze, a spokesperson for China's ceremonial legislature, has condemned statements from US lawmakers supportive of Hong Kong's pro-democracy movement, calling them a "gross interference in China's internal affairs." Wenze said that Hong Kong and the Chinese population as a whole reject the actions of a "very small group of violent protesters." Read more: Cathay Pacific CEO quits over Hong Kong protest blowback Canada: Thousands rally in Toronto and Vancouver Thousands of protesters demonstrated across Canada in solidarity with the Hong democracy movement on Saturday. Meanwhile, pro-China rallies also took off there. Large crowds gathered in front of a metro station in Vancouver and were separated by police, and supporters from both sides also confronted each other in Toronto. Local media reported that the atmosphere is tense in both cities, both of which are home to a large Chinese community. kw,mvb/rc (AFP,AP, Reuters) Every evening, DW's editors send out a selection of the day's hard news and quality feature journalism. You can sign up to receive it directly here.