The United States said on Tuesday that it is delaying tariffs on some Chinese-made goods — including cellphones, laptops, shoes and clothing — that had been targeted for the measure from next month as part of a spiraling trade war. Other Chinese items will be removed from the list of goods which will be hit with a 10% tariff from September 1. The Office of the US Trade Representative said it would go ahead with tariffs on about $300 billion (€268 billion) of other Chinese goods imported to the US in a dispute over Beijing's aggressive trade policies. News of the delayed tariffs triggered a rally on Wall Street that saw the Dow Jones surge 2%. Read more: Opinion: China, US digging in for long battle The first round of tariffs in 2018 were on all imported washing machines and solar panels — not just those from China. A study by economists from the Federal Reserve Bank of New York, Columbia University, and Princeton University found that the burden of Trump's tariffs — including taxes on steel, aluminum, solar panels falls entirely on US consumers and businesses who buy imported products. On Friday May 10, 2019 President Donald Trump imposed sanctions on $200 billion (€178 billion) worth of Chinese goods. The move raised tariffs from 10% to 25% on a range of consumer products, including cell phones, computers and toys. China's Commerce Ministry said it "deeply regrets" the US decision. In April 2019, the United States said it wanted to put tariffs on $11.2 billion worth of goods from the EU. The list includes helicopters and aircraft from Airbus as well as European exports like famous cheeses such as Stilton, Roquefort and Gouda, wines and oysters, ceramics, knives and pajamas. The EU imposed import duties of 25% on a $2.8 billion range of imports from the United States in retaliation for US tariffs on European steel and aluminum. Targeted US products include Harley-Davidson motorcycles, bourbon, peanuts, blue jeans, steel and aluminum. May 17, 2019 is the deadline for President Trump to decide on imposing tariffs on vehicle imports from the EU. According to diplomats, Germany, whose exports of cars and parts to the United States are more than half the EU total, wants to press ahead with talks to ward off tariffs on automakers Volkswagen, Mercedes and BMW. India, the world's biggest buyer of US almonds, on June 21, 2018 raised import duties on the nuts by 20% and increased tariffs on a range of other farm products and US iron and steel, in retaliation for US tariffs on Indian steel. Trump said last month that he would end preferential trade treatment for India, which would result in US tariffs on up to $5.6 billion of imports from India. Mexico on June 5, 2018 imposed tariffs of up to 25% on American steel, pork, cheese, apples, potatoes and bourbon, in retaliation for US tariffs on Mexican metals. While to the north, Canada on July 1 imposed tariffs on $12.6 billion worth of U.S. goods, including steel, aluminum, coffee, ketchup and bourbon whiskey in retaliation for US tariffs on Canadian steel and aluminum. Trade talks in doubt The next round of talks between China and the US is planned for next month in Washington, but the deterioration in relations has cast doubt on whether the meeting will take place. US President Donald Trump accused Beijing of continuing to renege on its commitment to buy US agricultural goods. "As usual, China said they were going to be buying 'big' from our great American Farmers. So far they have not done what they said. Maybe this will be different!" Trump posted on Twitter on Tuesday. Solemn protest Meanwhile Chinese Vice Premier Liu He spoke with US Trade Representative Robert Lighthizer and US Treasury Secretary Steven Mnuchin on Tuesday, China's Ministry of Commerce said in a statement. The Chinese side said it made "solemn representation" on the tariffs. "Both sides agree to talk again on the phone within two weeks," the statement read. Send  Facebook   Twitter   google+   Whatsapp   Tumblr   linkedin   stumble   Digg   reddit   Newsvine Permalink https://p.dw.com/p/3ND6C kw/aw (AP, AFP, dpa, Reuters) DW sends out a daily selection of the day's news and features. Sign up here.