A grand jury in Chicago on Thursday charged American actor Jussie Smollett with 16 new felony counts after he allegedly filed a false police report claiming he was the victim of a racist and homophobic attack. Smollett, a gay and black actor on the US television series "Empire," told Chicago police last month that two masked men beat him, looped a rope around his neck, poured an unknown substance on him and hurled racist and anti-gay slurs, including "this is MAGA country," in reference to US President Donald Trump's "Make America Great Again" slogan. Read more: What Hollywood movies do to perpetuate racial stereotypes Police initially investigated the incident as a possible but later said Smollett staged the attack in an attempt to gain publicity and a better salary. He was charged last month with one felony count of disorderly conduct for allegedly filing a false police report. The 16 new charges include eight counts relating to what he told the officer who responded to the report of the attack and eight for what he later told a detective. The story Peter Farrelly tells in this Oscar-award-winning film is based on true events. Viggo Mortensen (left) plays a chauffeur who drives a pianist (Mahershala Ali) through the US's southern states. He relies on the so-called "Green Book," which introduces car drivers to restaurants and motels that are exclusively for blacks — a clear sign of racial segregation. The Oscar for "best adapted screenplay" in 2019 went to a film that also deals with the subject. And like "Green Book," "BlacKkKlansman" by director Spike Lee is based on real events and depicts a black policeman investigating Ku Klux Klan circles during the 1970s. Lee has been addressing racism in the US in his films since the 1980s. Finally, a third film garnered an Oscar this year, which — in a broad sense — can be linked with the subject of racism. The 2018 Marvel film "Black Panther" focused for the first time on a black superhero. Marvel Comics creaters Stan Lee and Jack Kirby invented the story characters in the 1960s at the height of the civil rights movement. The 1957 film "12 Angry Men" was one of the first works of US cinema to deal with racism. Primarily a legal thriller, the film debut by director Sidney Lumet was about the prejudices of twelve white jurors in court, who are supposed to issue a verdict on a young Puerto Rican. Ten years later, it was Sidney Poitier who opened more doors in Hollywood. In the drama "In the Heat of the Night," Poitier plays a policeman from the North who has to solve a case down South. There, he is confronted with unfathomable racism. The film was awarded five Oscars — and Poitier became the first African-American superstar of US cinema. "Mississippi Burning," the 1988 film by Briton Alan Parker, tells of the disappearance of three civil rights activists and the ensuing FBI investigation. One critic wrote: "Parker's gimmicky directing (does) pretty much everything to turn 'Mississippi Burning' into a gangster movie rip-off. Yet the film breaks a taboo: it places a whole group of the white American middle-class in the wrong." The sentimental friendship story "Driving Miss Daisy," produced in Hollywood by the Australian Bruce Beresford, was released one year later. Like "Green Book," it showed that the subject of racism can be dealt with on-screen in a conciliatory fashion. "Driving Miss Daisy" won four Oscars. In 2008, director and Hollywood star Clint Eastwood surprised his fans with the complex drama "Gran Torino." In it, Eastwood plays a racist American who has prejudices against people of Asian descent living in the USA. In the course of the film, Eastwood's character changes for the better through personal encounters. Shortly afterward, in 2009, Eastwood once again took up the subject of racism. In the sports drama "Invictus," he tells the story of the South African national rugby team. "How enemies became friends" was the German translation of the literary original. Eastwood took South Africa during the time of apartheid to task, with Morgan Freeman playing Nelson Mandela. Another film about racism and with an educational aim, "The Butler" from 2013 starred Forest Whitaker and Oprah Winfrey. Based on true events, it tells the story of the African-American butler Eugene Allen, who served eight US presidents. It also offered a glimpse into recent US history. "12 Years a Slave," which opened in cinemas in 2013 and won the Oscar for best film the following year, takes a deep look back into the origins of slavery in the US. British director Steve McQueen staged the racist drama with prominent actors — thus winning over the Oscars' Academy. One year later, US director Ava DuVernay looked back on history in "Selma," addressing marches of black civil rights activists from Selma to Montgomery in the state of Alabama. David Oyelowo played Martin Luther King, while Tom Wilkinson (shown here) took on the role of stubborn president Lyndon B. Johnson. In 2016, US director Jeff Nichols surprised audiences with the sensitive drama "Loving," another film that deals with a historical chapter of North American racism. It depicts the struggle of a couple who rebel against the law of forbidden mixed marriages — and succeed in court. One of the most idiosyncratic contributions to the subject of racism in cinema is "Get Out" of 2017. Unlike many well-intentioned but sentimental Hollywood films, African-American director Jordan Peele focused on genres, depicting racism with elements of horror and comedy — an extremely original and convincing genre mix. "Moonlight," directed by Barry Jenkins, tells the story of an Afro-American homosexual man in three "chapters." Convincing in its aesthetics, "Moonlight" is an example of a cinematic work that differentiates and subtly translates its theme without melodrama or sentimentality. Apart from the many feature films that American cinema has contributed to the subject of racism in recent decades, there are also documentaries. "I Am Not Your Negro" by Haitian director Raoul Peck of 2016 was very convincing. Peck relied heavily on texts by African-American writer James Baldwin. Author: Jochen Kürten (als) Smollett denies allegations Smollett has denied all allegations against him and in a statement, his attorney Mark Geragos denounced what he called "prosecutorial overkill." Jussie adamantly maintains his innocence even if law enforcement has robbed him of that presumption," Geragos said. Read more: How people of color experience living in Germany "This redundant and vindictive indictment is nothing more than a desperate attempt to make headlines in order to distract from the internal investigation launched to investigate the outrageous leaking of false information by the Chicago Police Department," Geragos said. Detectives initially became suspicious about Smollett's story after speaking to two suspects — two brothers who are also black — who said Smollett had paid them $3,500 (€3,088) to carry out the attack. Smollett's 'Empire' character cut from episodes "He took advantage of the pain and anger of racism to promote his career," Chicago Police Superintendent Eddie Johnson told reporters the day Smollett was initially charged. Read more: Colorblind: interracial love in South Africa Johnson said Smollett also sent a threatening racist and homophobic letter to himself at the Twentieth Century Fox studio before the attack. Since the allegations came out, the producers of "Empire" announced that the actor's character would be removed from the season's final two episodes. Send  Facebook   Twitter   google+   Whatsapp   Tumblr   linkedin   stumble   Digg   reddit   Newsvine Permalink https://p.dw.com/p/38kfW law/ng (AFP, AP) Each evening at 1830 UTC, DW's editors send out a selection of the day's hard news and quality feature journalism. You can sign up to receive it directly here.