A tornado that ripped through Lee County, Alabama, late Sunday killed more than 20 people, downed phone towers and flattened buildings, officials said. "We are at 22 right now. Unfortunately, I feel like that number may rise yet again," Lee County Sheriff Jay Jones said of the death toll. A number of people were taken to hospital with serious injuries. Lee County coroner Bill Harris said there were children among the dead. "We've still got people being pulled out of rubble," he said. "We're going to be here all night." Read more: 2 dead as tornado, storms batter northern Germany A fallen cell tower blocks the Route 280 highway in Lee County Search put on hold As night fell, emergency crews were scouring the rubble for those still unaccounted for in the hard-hit community of Beauregard, east of the state capital of Montgomery. But they had to call off the search overnight when conditions became too dangerous. "The challenge is the sheer volume of the debris where all the homes were located," Jones told CNN. "It's the most I've seen that I can recall." He said the tornado appeared to have traveled right through Beauregard's center, carving a path of destruction at least half a mile (0.8 kilometers) wide. Read more: US winter storms bring rare snow to Hawaii Authorities in several southeastern states issued tornado warnings on Sunday Take cover Authorities said multiple twisters were unleashed by a vast storm system that moved across several southeastern states on Sunday. The National Weather Service issued tornado warnings for different parts of the region, including Lee County, during the day, urging residents to: "TAKE COVER NOW! Move to a basement or an interior room on the lowest floor of a sturdy building. Avoid windows." It said the first twister to hit the county had a windspeed of at least 218 kilometers (135 miles) per hour. More than 6,000 homes were left without power in Alabama, according to PowerOutage.US, while 16,000 suffered outages in neighboring Georgia. Read more: Weather and climate disasters made 2017 costliest year for US Rescue workers rushed to parts of Lee County where mobile homes were flattened Alabama Governor Kay Ivey warned residents on Twitter that more severe weather might be on the way. "Our hearts go out to those who lost their lives in the storms that hit Lee County today," she wrote. "Praying for their families & everyone whose homes or businesses were affected." She added that she was extending a state of emergency for Alabama that was issued last month to deal with flooding. Freezing temperatures have gripped the northern United States due to a split in the polar vortex, a mass of cold air that normally stays bottled up in the Arctic. The Wednesday morning temperature in Chicago was -30 degrees Celsius (-22 Fahrenheit) which felt like -46 degrees with the wind chill. It was expected to get down to -33 degrees on Thursday. The weather wreaked havoc on airports and train services. More than 1,800 flights were cancelled at Chicago's two major airports, while rail operator Amtrak cancelled train services from its hub in the city. At Chicago's O'Hare airport, ground crews were told to avoid spending more than 15 minutes at a time exposed to the freezing air, which delayed the lucky flights that managed to take off. Commuters heading to work in Chicago had to layer up to fend off the cold. "I have two shirts on... I have a hoodie, I have my big winter coat, I have a face mask and a skullcap and I am still cold," sandwich shop manager Daniel Gonzalez said. The dangerously low temperatures killed several people, including a University of Ohio student, and an 82-year-old man who fell as he approached his front door. "This is a historic cold, obviously," Chicago Mayor Rahm Emanuel said. "They are life-threatening temperatures, and they should be treated accordingly," he cautioned Despite the bitter cold, daily activities have to continue. The outside temperature was -28 degrees at Metogga Lake Dairy on Wednesday and staff started milking 412 cows at 4 o'clock in the morning. Hundreds of warming centers were opened for vulnerable residents such as seniors. Buses were used as mobile warming spaces, and shelter capacities were increased for the homeless, including the approximately 16,000 living on the streets of Chicago. The dangerously cold wind chills could cause frostbite on exposed skin in as little as five minutes," the National Weather Service said. The weather affected other essential services, including the postal system and blood donations. The US Postal Service suspended deliveries in parts of Indiana, Michigan, Illinois, Ohio, Iowa, the Dakotas and Nebraska. The American Red Cross had to cancel 370 blood drives, which was expected to lead to an estimated 11,600 in uncollected blood donations for the month of January. When temperatures get below around -35 degrees Celsius, water can freeze instantly. Here someone has tried to blow a bubble, but it has swiftly transformed into ice as it met the cold air. As temperatures dipped, Glenn and Julia Auerbach invited their friends Dan Wilson and Omina Shibahara over to their Minneapolis home for a backyard sauna. The hot room was over 100 degrees warmer than outside. Author: Louisa Wright nm/bw (AFP, Reuters, AFP) Every day, DW's editors send out a selection of the day's hard news and quality feature journalism. Sign up for the newsletter here.