For the first time in seven years, the Bundesliga title could be lifted by a club other than Bayern Munich. After a flying start to the season, Borussia Dortmund took advantage of major changes in Bavaria to open up a nine point lead in December. But since then, Niko Kovac's team have made up the ground on Lucien Favre's to leave Bayern leading the table by seven goals and the sides due to meet at the Allianz Arena on April 6. DW's Bundesliga writers offer their predictions for the home straight. Matt Ford - Borussia will bounce back After several years of false starts, managerial mishaps and general turmoil, winning the Bundesliga was not Borussia Dortmund's primary aim this season. But Lucien Favre quickly gelled a collection of new faces into a deadly attacking unit. Injuries and defensive lapses cost them as Bayern closed the gap, but the international break has come at a good time. With Mario Götze, Axel Witsel, Paco Alcacer and Marco Reus all fit going into the final stretch, Dortmund are well placed to take Bayern all the way to the final two matchdays, where the Black and Yellows' fixtures (Düsseldorf at home and Gladbach away) look slightly more favorable than Bayern's (RB Leipzig away and Eintracht Frankfurt at home). To be in with a chance though, they must at least avoid defeat in Munich. Predicted champion: Borussia Dortmund Matt Pearson - Experience will tell As refreshing as it would be for this vibrant Dortmund side to break Bayern's grip on the Bundesliga, it feels as if their ship might have sailed. To have such a big lead at the turn of the year and allow it to be eroded shows this young side are feeling the pressure. Dortmund have shown their spirit several times in recent weeks with late goals but Bayern's comfortable wins suggest they are hitting peak form at the right time. Though Kovac's squad has it issues, it also contains several serial champions, players who have dealt with and overcome real pressure before. The added advantage of playing at home in Der Klassiker could prove decisive and a Bayern win in that match will finally break Dortmund. The worry is, with Bayern starting to overhaul their squad already, that this could be BVB's best chance for some time. Predicted champion: Bayern Munich James Thorogood - Reus the difference maker Marco Reus has been a key figure for Borussia Dortmund this season It's a classic head versus heart battle, but I love a good underdog story and this one hinges on two decisive factors. The first is whether Borussia Dortmund can do the league double over Bayern for the first time since the 2011/12 campaign when they last lifted the Meisterschale. A draw at the Allianz Arena on April 6 won't be enough to dent Bayern's momentum or confidence. Three points is a must. The second factor is the fitness of Marco Reus, who is in the form of his career. Dortmund's results and performances have both suffered in the absence of their talismanic captain this season, but if they can keep the 29-year-old fresh and firing on all cylinders then he has the potential to be the X Factor BVB need to upset the odds. Predicted champion: Borussia Dortmund Jonathan Harding - Bayern have the momentum As much as Borussia Dortmund winning the Bundesliga would be one of the best things to happen to German football in recent years, it's hard to see beyond Bayern Munich for the title. Psychologically, having hauled in Dortmund, both Bayern and their head coach Niko Kovac will feel very positive about winning the remainder of their games. Granted, Frankfurt and Leipzig pose two tricky fixtures to finish but Bayern probably do have the edge when it comes to the fixtures. Add to that the form of Serge Gnabry, Javi Martinez and Leon Goretzka and the ingrained routine of winning domestically and it has to be Bayern. Dortmund are ahead of their expected development but look two injuries away from collapse. As entertaining and dramatic as they have kept things this season, their manner of victories don't appear to be sustainable. It will be a case of so nearly, but not quite for Dortmund - and Marco Reus, who might well end up failing to crown perhaps the greatest form his career with the first league title that his talent has long merited. Predicted champion: Bayern Munich Niko Kovac has a chance at winning a first Bundesliga title as a coach Davis VanOpdorp - Bayern have the easier run-in Bayern clearly are the team in form and have the momentum heading into the final eight weeks of the season. But the biggest determining factor for me when it comes to the title race is the remaining schedule. Bayern's last eight opponents have collected 283 points in the Bundesliga so far, while BVB's have collected 303 points. Even if you just look at the points Bayern's and Dortmund's remaining opponents have collected in 2019, the Bavarians still hold the title edge — 100 to 106. Additionally, Kovac's side faces many of its tougher opponents — namely Dortmund, Bremen and Frankfurt — at home, whereas the trickier fixtures for Favre's team come away — Bayern, Bremen and Gladbach. In the end, who they play does matter. Even though the defending league champions still have German Cup fixtures to worry about, I would tip them over Dortmund. Predicted champion: Bayern Munich His transfer to Barcelona from Borussia Dortmund will be the most expensive ever involving a Bundesliga club. Dortmund will receive 105 million euros plus further add-ons. Not bad for a 20-year-old who is not yet the finished article. Having secured one French World Cup winner in Benjamin Pavard, Bayern Munich snapped another early on in 2019. Defender Lucas Hernandez will join the record Bundesliga champions for the start of the 2019/20 season for a hefty €80 million. The fee makes him both Bayern and the Bundesliga's most expensive signing. The 2015-16 Bundesliga season started with a transfer supernova as well. Wolfsburg's talented playmaker left for Manchester City for a reported 74 million euros. At the time, no German team had ever earned that much from a player sale. Keita signed with Leipzig from Salzburg for 15-million-euro fee, but he will only wind up playing two seasons in Germany. Why? Because Liverpool are set to acquire him after the 2017-18 season for a reported total of 70 million euros. That's a pretty good profit for the Red Bull machine. The following summer saw another Bundesliga club cash in on one of their young talents, as Leroy Sané moved from Schalke to Manchester City. The fee for the Germany player was reported to be north of 50 million euros. Switzerland international Granit Xhaka was a nice little earner for Borussia Mönchengladbach in the summer of 2017. Having moved to Gladbach from Basel for around 8.5 million euros in 2012, the Foals sold him on to Arsenal for a reported 45 million euros. Having joined Wolfsburg from Schalke a year earlier, in the summer of 2016, Julian Draxler decided he didn't want to play there either. He went through the motions for the first half of the season. In January 2017 he got his wish - a move to PSG worth a reported 40 million euros. It looks to have been a losing proposition for Wolfsburg, as they are thought to have paid 43 million for him. Are those euro signs in Borussia Dortmund chairman Hans-Joachim Watzke's eyes? Henrikh Mkhitaryan, who had joined the Ruhr district club from Shakhtar Donetsk for 27.5 million in 2013, moved on to Manchester United for a reported 42 million euros in the summer of 2016. Bayern Munich broke their own transfer record with the 41.5 million euro purchase of French midfielder Corentin Tolisso from Lyon in June 2017, making him the most expensive player ever to be brought into the Bundesliga. For a short time, Brazilian Roberto Firmino held the record for the biggest sale of a Bundesliga player. In the summer of 2015, Liverpool paid Hoffenheim 41 million euros for his services. Bayern Munich splashed 40 million euros to acquire Javi Martinez from Athletic Bilbao, but it turned out to be money well spent. Martinez helped the Bavarians win five straight Bundesliga titles, the first of which came as part of a European treble.