Charles Sirleaf, the son of Liberia's former president Ellen Johnson Sirleaf, was a deputy governor at the Central Bank of Liberia during the period when the bank notes were illegally ordered. He denied any wrongdoing. The director of banking, Dorbor Hagba, was also arrested on Thursday evening. Read more:

Liberians  underwhelmed by anti-graft promises The American aid agency USAID and the Liberian government funded the investigations which were launched last year in October following the suspected disappearance of newly printed notes worth $100 million (€88 million) destined for the Liberian central bank - the equivalent of around 5 percent of the West African nation's gross domestic product. A London-based firm Kroll was hired to carry out the audit. The supposed disappearance led to a travel departure ban on 15 people in September, including Charles Sirleaf. "Kroll has identified discrepancies at every stage of the process for controlling the movement of banknotes into and out of the (central bank)," the risk consultancy said in its report that had been commissioned by the United States at the request of the Liberian government. $ 16.5 million missing A Liberian government report found that notes worth $16.5 million remained unaccounted for and said the bank's management "deviated from conventional best practices." In 2016, Liberia's House of Representatives passed a resolution approving the printing of 5 billion Liberian dollars (US$31 million; €27 million). The Central Bank requested an additional 10 billion Liberian dollars but the request was denied by the Senate. The bank engaged a company to print the additional banknotes anyway. "This raised the risk of unintended negative economic effect, including high inflation and the rapid depreciation" of the Liberian dollar, the report said. Kroll said its investigation found no evidence of a large shipment of cash going missing as had been reported by local media. Instead, the new bank notes all arrived from a Swedish company but the central bank then failed to properly track what was done with them, the report said. Read more:

Fighting  corruption in Liberia The report said most of the bank notes are believed to have been put into circulation without authorities removing and destroying the old bills they were designed to replace. Anderson Miamen, executive director of CENTAL in Liberia believes that the money went into the pockets of individuals: "It means the money was misapplied, and misapplication means converting property that is not yours into your personal benefit." "If the money isn't available and there is no record of the money  being infused into the economy, it means it has to be somewhere. "And that somewhere would be in it private accounts of individuals connected to the process." Liberians are anxious and disappointed The report said officials at the central bank were unable to explain who approved the injection of new bank notes without removing the old ones and on how the money was infused into the Liberian economy. Mark Dahen, a Liberian journalist finds the situation "utterly embarrassing." "Many Liberians where we're anxious about this report and have been disappointed since this news broke about the missing 16 billion Liberian Dollar." There had been several organizations, he says in the DW interview, who have been pressuring the government to ensure that concrete actions comes from this investigation. Critics of President George Weah's government have accused his administration of having had a hand in the poor handling of the bank notes for their personal gain, an allegation they have denied. Miamen underlined that the malpractice is first of all a failure of the government. "But it is also the failure of the oversight body or the internal control system of the bank." Liberians protested against the millions of US dollars that went missing between 2017 and 2018 He believes that the problem lies with how Liberia is dealing with impunity: "I can point to the lack of action on or against individuals who make them properly resources or abuse their power." "What needs to happen is to address impunity on a broader level in this country." "The second thing is if institutions or the different agencies were effectively playing their role, if internal controls system were actually exercising their responsibility and doing due diligence, we would have probably not gotten to this point." Not the first Sirleaf scandal Dahen says in the DW interview that he believes that this is just another proof that having family members of important politicians in high ranks of economical institutions is difficult. "This is not the first time that members of the Sirleaf family have been the source of scandal." "Some years back, Robert Sirleaf was also implicated in some corrupt practices." Robert Sirleaf, another son of Ellen Johnson Sirleaf, was the chairman of the National Oil Company of Liberia (NOCAL), that had gone bankrupt under his chairmanship in 2016. Under his management, 30 million to 40 million US Dollar disappeared. Miamen agrees: "Generally we can see that there were incidences of corruption or scandals that were reported under the Sirleaf administration." "Some of the children or family members of the president had very high positions on lucrative positions in government." "So this is not a strange news really, in sense of family members of the president being at the center of kind of controversy." "Given the incidences of corruption and the dubious nature of some of the dealings under the then leadership of Sirleaf, we can see that it is not strange that something like this is coming up." Ellen Johnson Sirleaf herself was listed in the Paradise Papers 2012 as a director of a Bermuda-based financial company. The leak shows how many of Africa's rich and powerful – from the head of Nigeria's Senate, Bukola Saraki, to Ellen Johnson Sirleaf, the president of Liberia – park their money in offshore havens. Send  Facebook   Twitter   google+   Whatsapp   Tumblr   linkedin   stumble   Digg   reddit   Newsvine Permalink https://p.dw.com/p/35Cjr