In another blow to Prime Minister Theresa May, lawmakers voted with a majority of 44 in favor of the arrangements for the indicative vote process on alternative Brexit proposals — by 331 votes to 287. This essentially means that parliament takes over the agenda. Speaking at a Conservative Party meeting at the House of Commons, May told MPs that she will quit if her twice-defeated plan for leaving the EU passes and before the next phase of negotiations. May said, "I know there is a desire for a new approach - and new leadership - in the second phase of the Brexit negotiations, and I won't stand in the way of that." Meaningful vote: Take three House Speaker John Bercow referred to talk of the government bringing back its Brexit deal for a third try after two heavy defeats — either on Thursday or Friday next week. The Speaker said that, for this to be allowed, there would have to be a substantial change to the motion. This has reduced the chance of the so-called 'Meaningful Vote' on the Brexit deal being brought back to the house. "Therefore, in order that there should be no misunderstanding, I wish to make clear that I do expect the government to meet the test of change," he told the House on Wednesday. Bercow also advised the government against attempts to get round his ruling: "They should not seek to circumvent my ruling by means of tabling either a notwithstanding motion or a tabling motion. The table office has been instructed that no such motions will be accepted." House Speaker John Bercow What's on the table The House therefore moved on to consider a series of 8 indicative vote options, made even more significant by the Speaker's ruling. In brief, the 'indicative votes' are: B - John Baron’s - No deal To leave the European Union without a deal on April 12. D - Nick Boles’s - common market 2.0 UK membership of the European Free Trade Association (EFTA) and European Economic Area (EEA) with participation in the single market and a “comprehensive customs arrangement” with the EU after Brexit until a wider trade deal is agreed. H - George Eustice’s - EFTA and EEA Remaining within the EEA and rejoining EFTA, but remaining outside a customs union with the EU. The motion was also signed by Conservative MPs including former minister Nicky Morgan and head of the Brexit Delivery Group Simon Hart. J - Ken Clarke’s - Customs union Tabled by veteran Conservative Europhile Ken Clarke, this requires a commitment to negotiate a “permanent and comprehensive UK-wide customs union with the EU” in any Brexit deal. K - Labour’s - Customs union and alignment with single market Labour has tabled a motion proposing its plan for a close economic relationship with the EU. L - Joanna Cherry’s - Revocation to avoid no deal Under this plan tabled by Scottish MP Joanna Cherry, if the government has not passed its withdrawal agreement, it would have to stage a vote on a no-deal Brexit two sitting days before the scheduled date of departure. M - Dame Margaret Beckett’s - Confirmatory public vote Former foreign secretary Dame Margaret Beckett's motion would require a public vote to confirm any Brexit deal passed by parliament before its ratification. O - Marcus Fysh’s - Contingent preferential arrangements This calls for the government to seek to agree preferential trade arrangements with the EU, in case the UK is unable to implement a withdrawal agreement with the bloc. Voting on paper At 1900 UTC MPs marked their preferences on pieces of paper, rather than walking through a lobby to indicate their vote. These ballot papers were made available in the division lobbies and MPs are to vote by putting crosses next to “aye” or “noe” for each of the eight proposals. The results are expected at 2100 UTC. After that, in the coming days parliament will discuss the most popular options and then vote on them. The key element is whether or not May's government will act on them. jm/js (Reuters, AP) Each evening at 1830 UTC, DW's editors send out a selection of the day's hard news and quality feature journalism. You can sign up to receive it directly here.