Military-style semi-automatic and automatic firearms like the ones used in the deadly attack on two mosques in Christchurch on March 15 will no longer be available in New Zealand, the prime minister announced on Thursday. "Every semi-automatic weapon used in the terrorist attack on Friday will be banned," Jacinda Ardern said. The ban will apply to all military-style semi-automatics (MSSA) and assault rifles, along with parts used to convert weapons into MSSAs and all high-capacity magazines. Few exemptions She added that the law is set to come into effect on April 11 and that government is working on a large-scale buy-back plan to encourage owners of now-banned weapons to surrender them. She did not say what measures would be taken to enforce the new law. The suspect charged in the attacks had bought his weapons legally using a standard firearms license. He then illegally enhanced their capacity by using 30-round magazines, which was "done easily through a simple online purchase," Ardern said. Police have not yet released details of exactly which weapons he used, but footage suggests at least one of the weapons was a semi-automatic rifle similar to an AR-15 that has been widely available in New Zealand. Ardern, who had vowed to tighten the country's lax gun laws in the immediate aftermath of the attacks, said the Cabinet will work on legal exemptions to the ban, such as for farmers needing to cull their herds but said any exemptions would be "tightly regulated." Move welcomed New Zealand is home to less than 5 million people and has an estimated 1.2 million to 1.5 million firearms, around 13,500 of them MSSA-type weapons. Most farmers own guns, which they use for killing pests and putting down injured stock. Recreational hunting is popular, and gun clubs and shooting ranges are a common sight. Read more: Opinion: Empathy is what makes us human Federated Farmers, which represents thousands of farmers, said it supported the new law. "This will not be popular among some of our members but...we believe this is the only practicable solution," Rural Security spokesman Miles Anderson said in a statement. The farmers' lobby had previously opposed tougher gun laws. Marwa El-Sherbini, a pharmacist who lived with her husband and son in Dresden, was killed in Dresden's district court on July 1, 2009. She was stabbed by a 28-year-old Russian-German man shortly after testifying against him in a verbal abuse case. He'd previously called her a "terrorist" and "Islamist." El-Sherbini is considered to be the first murder victim of an Islamophobic attack in Germany. Right-wing extremist Anders Behring Breivik killed 77 people in two lone-wolf terror attacks on July 22, 2011. He first set off a bomb in the government district in Oslo before killing young people attending a summer camp on the island of Utoya. Prior to the attack, Breivik published a manifesto where he decried multiculturalism and the "Islamization of Europe." Three university students — Deah Barakat, his wife Yusor Abu-Salha, and her sister Razan Abu-Salha — were shot dead by their 46-year-old neighbor on February 10, 2015. The shooter described himself as an opponent of organized religion and reportedly repeatedly threatened and harassed the victims. The killings sparked outrage online, with millions of tweets using the hashtag #MuslimLivesMatter. On June 17, 2015, a white supremacist opened fire at the Emanuel African Methodist Episcopal Church in Charleston, South Carolina. Nine African-American worshipers were killed, including a pastor at the church, which is one of the oldest black congregations in the United States. The 21-year-old suspect was convicted of a federal hate crime and sentenced to death. A mass shooting at a shopping mall in Munich on July 22, 2016 wounded some 36 people and killed 10 — including the 18-year-old shooter. The perpetrator, a German of Iranian descent, made xenophobic and racist comments and idolized school shooters, according to police. He also suffered from depression, was frequently bullied and wanted to take revenge on people with immigrant backgrounds. On June 19, 2017, a 47-year-old man killed one person and wounded another 10 after driving a van into a group of pedestrians near the Finsbury Park mosque in north London. All of the victims were Muslims who were on their way to take part in special night prayers during Ramadan. The perpetrator later stated that he was motivated by a "hatred of Islam" and was sentenced to life in prison. One woman was killed and dozens were wounded when a white nationalist drove his car into a crowd of counterprotesters in Charlottesville, Virginia on August 12, 2017. The counterprotesters had been demonstrating against the Unite the Right rally, a gathering of white supremacists, white nationalists and neo-Nazis. The suspect was sentenced to life in prison. A gunman opened fire on worshipers at the Islamic Cultural Center in Quebec City in late January 2017, killing six people and wounding over a dozen. The shooting took place during evening prayers. Canadian Prime Minister Justin Trudeau condemned the shooting as "a terrorist attack on Muslims in a center of worship and refuge." On October 27, 2018, a 46-year-old gunman opened fire at a synagogue in the US city of Pittsburgh, killing 11 people and wounding seven. He reportedly shouted anti-Semitic slurs during the attack and previously posted conspiracy theories online. It was the deadliest attack on Jewish people in US history. Shortly after midnight as people were out celebrating, a 50-year-old man carried out targeted attacks on immigrants in the western German cities of Bottrop and Essen — injuring eight people, one seriously. He deliberately drove his car at two Syrian and Afghan families who were out celebrating with their children in Bottrop. German authorities said "he had a clear intent to kill foreigners." At least 50 people were killed and dozens others were injured in twin terror attacks at mosques in Christchurch. Officials called it a "right-wing extremist attack" and the deadliest shooting in New Zealand's history. One of the gunmen livestreamed the attack and posted a racist manifesto online before the attack. Prime Minister Jacinda Ardern called it "one of New Zealand's darkest days." Author: Rebecca Staudenmaier, Nermin Ismail The country's largest weapons retailer, Hunting & Fishing New Zealand, also supports the ban. "While we have sold them in the past to a small number of customers, last week's events have forced a reconsideration that has led us to believe such weapons of war have no place in our business or our country," Chief Executive Darren Jacobs said in a statement. Read more: Christchurch: The myth of the lone-wolf attacker Friday prayers Meanwhile, preparations were underway for a mass burial and a Friday prayer service to be led by the imam of one of the two mosques where worshippers were killed. Imam Gamal Fouda said he is expecting 3,000 to 4,000 people at Friday's prayer service, including many who have come from abroad. It is to take place in Hagley Park, a city landmark across from the Al Noor mosque that was targeted last Friday, with members of the Linwood mosque also attending. ng/sms (Reuters, AP) Send  Facebook   Twitter   google+   Whatsapp   Tumblr   linkedin   stumble   Digg   reddit   Newsvine Permalink https://p.dw.com/p/3FKaf