Envy, greed, gluttony, lust, pride, sloth and wrath are the Seven Deadly Sins as listed by Pope Gregory I in the 16th century. Pride is certainly a normal attribute, even encouraged nowadays. It's considered a good thing if you're proud of your accomplishments, your nationality or ethnicity or some other group you identify with. Yet in excess, pride is regarded as maybe the most serious of the Seven. One ruler could hardly be outdone for that failing: Henry VIII, crowned King of England in 1509 and before long showing his true colors as a brutal ruler. We have music by John Taverner, Thomas Tallis and Philippe Verdelot celebrating that despotic figure. King Henry VIII Human beings are hunters and gatherers by nature, but when one person's wealth depends on another's poverty, then it's a matter of sinful greed. Exploiting the poor was common practice for princes, dukes and kings down through the ages, and for religious leaders as well. This behavior is criticized in the Carmina Burana, a collection of texts from around the year 1230 that turned up in the songs of wandering poets. After decades of research, some melodies to the Carmina Burana were found, but in many cases, only the texts are extant. Comparing them in verse and meter to melodies that were sung by the wandering poets of the time, Norbert Rodenkirchen was able to match some melodies to some texts. Another deadly sin has to do with the human capacity for pleasure: Where pleasure becomes lust is a point that's hard to identify. Our musical illustrations are taken from an opera by the 17th century Italian composer Alessandro Stradella, recently discovered in the Vatican library by the conductor Andrea de Carlo and given its first modern performance at the Early Music Days in Herne. The opera is titled "Love and Hypocrisy." When it comes to wrath or rage, another one of the Seven Deadly Sins, we need go no farther than the daily news with its images of war and terror. But strictly speaking, in the the Judeo-Christian tradition, there are no grey zones: rage is the privilege of God alone, and He directs His wrath against sinful humanity. Closing this hour of music, we'll hear a human plea for mercy before divine wrath. John Taverner  Christe Jesu Pastor Bonus, motet in five voices Philippe Verdelot  Nil Majus Superi Vident, motet in five voices Thomas Tallis  See Lord and Behold, motet in six voices performed by: Vocal Consort Berlin James Wood, conductor Recorded by West German Radio, Cologne (WDR) in the Church of the Cross in Herne on November 9, 2018 Notes from Carl Orff's Carmina burana, not to be confused with the real thing anon From the Carmina Burana: performed by: Les Haulz et les Bas Norbert Rodenkirchen, conductor Recorded by West German Radio, Cologne (WDR) in the Church of the Cross in Herne on November 11, 2018 Alessandro Stradella  excerpts from Amare et Fingere (Love and Hypocrisy) performed by: Paola Valentina Molinari, soprano Luca Servoni, tenor   Mare Nostrum Andrea de Carlo, conductor Recorded by West German Radio, Cologne (WDR) in the Arts Center in Herne on November 9, 2018 Giovanni Legrenzi  Prosa por Mortius: Dies Irae performed by: Ensemble Polyharmonique  Orkiestra Historyszna  Alexander Schneider, conductor Recorded by West German Radio, Cologne (WDR) in the Church of the Cross in Herne on November 8, 2018