The Netherlands' governing coalition is poised to lose its majority in the upper house due to a surge in support for a far-right populist party during regional elections, according to an exit poll published by Dutch broadcaster NOS. The vote took place days after a suspected gunman shot dead three people in the Dutch city of Utrecht. Preliminary results suggest: Read more: Utrecht shooting: Letter points to terrorist motive Thierry Baudet, the leader of the Forum for Democracy, has derided women, religious minorities and migrants Far-right surge Forum for Democracy, a political upstart led by the hard-line Thierry Baudet, is expected to gain 10 seats, just two less than Prime Minister Rutte's conservative VVD Party. The party used the Utrecht attack to shore up support for its far-right platforms. "You can tell what's going on anyway," Baudet told a rally. "This is a combination of an honor killing and a half-terrorist motive." Baudet has courted controversy in the past, with factually incorrect statements such as "women in general excel less in jobs and have less ambition." Read more: Former far-right Dutch politician converts to Islam What is the Dutch Senate? It is the Netherlands' upper house. Its members are chosen by 570 representatives, who were elected in 12 provinces during Wednesday's elections. What happens next? The Dutch Electoral Council is expected to publish the official results on March 25. In May, the new Senate will be seated. Every evening, DW's editors send out a selection of the day's hard news and quality feature journalism. You can sign up to receive it directly here. The shooting in Utrecht took place on a tram at around 10.45 a.m. (0945 UTC) in a residential neighborhood. At least three people were killed in the attack. Counterterrorism forces were quickly deployed to the scene at Utrecht's 24 Oktoberplein junction. Police are treating the incident as a possible case of terrorism. The police said on Twitter that "multiple people have been injured." Ambulances arrived rapidly to transport them to hospital. Later, authorities said five people had been wounded. The gunman escaped the scene of the crime and police have been trying to find him. Schools were told to keep their doors closed while the search was going on. Dutch police even deployed mounted forces as they tried to ensure public safety following the attack. The public has been warned to stay indoors. Utrecht police published a photo of the suspected attacker caught by surveillance video. The named the man as Gökmen Tanis, a 37-year-old born in Turkey. They asked the public not to approach him and to call the authorities if they see him. Speaking at a press conference, Dutch Prime Minister Mark Rutte said "our democracy is stronger than fantacism and violence. We will never give in to intolerence." ls/rc (Reuters, AFP)