Algerian President Abdelaziz Bouteflika promised to call for new elections within one year if re-elected in April, according to a letter read on state television on Sunday. The ailing president has been ruling the country since 1999 and is preparing a fifth run. His plans triggered days of mass protests across Algeria, including on Sunday, when thousands took to the streets in Algiers and other cites across the country. In the letter, Bouteflika pledged he would organize a "national conference" within the first year of his fifth term, and the conference would then set up early polls with him not running. Protests reach Paris Algerian security forces used water cannon and tear gas to disperse the crowd of mostly students in downtown Algiers on Sunday. Some of the protesters managed to break through the security cordon and march to the nearby Constitutional Council, demanding that the body reject the Bouteflika candidacy. The deadline for registering candidates was set to expire at midnight A crowd of mostly students in the center of the capital kept the days of protest going, chanting "Bouteflika go away!" There were reports of similar demonstrations taking place in towns and cities throughout the country. Thousands of Algerian diaspora also protested in Paris and other French cities. Protesters hold up a sign reading "No to a 5th term" in Marseille At least one protester was killed in clashes with police earlier this week.. Bouteflika needs to show up in person? Despite the outrage, Bouteflika's team managed to file the papers confirming he would seek re-election, according to a report from a private Ennahar TV station cited by Reuters. Separately, state news agency APS published Bouteflika's asset declaration, which is another requirement to take part in the race. However, Reuters also cited the head of election commission Abdelwahab Derbal as saying that every candidate was obliged to present the candidacy papers in person. This could be an unsurmountable obstacle for the ailing leader, who is currently receiving medical care in Switzerland. The deadline for handing the papers in expires on midnight on Sunday. Bouteflika has been president of Algeria since 1999, having pushed twice for constitutional amendments in order to run for another term. All but one of his elections has been marred by accusations of widespread fraud or voter suppression. The 'living dead' president Now 82 years old, the wheelchair-bound leader is rarely seen in public. He left Algeria last week for "routine medical checks." His last televised speech to the nation was broadcast in June 2017. German Chancellor Angela Merkel had to cancel her last planned trip to Algeria when Bouteflika, who is frequently ill, was reportedly suffering a lung infection. According to The Economist, critics joke that he is the "living dead" president. While Algeria did experience some Arab Spring-inspired protests in 2011, the government was able to avoid the unrest that followed in many other countries by financing widespread wage increases across the country using the national oil and gas revenues. Bouteflika, who suffered a stroke in 2013, is rarely seen in public Brother: Protester killed by the 'ruling gang' When he announced on February 10 that he would be seeking a fifth term, demonstrators began organizing on social media to demand he finally step down. People called for his photo to be taken down from administrative buildings and a large poster of him was ripped down in Algiers. On Friday, Hassan Ben Khedda, the son of a late Algerian politician, died during a protest in Algiers. The government issued a statement saying his death would be investigated, but his brother said Hassan Ben Khedda, who was in his 50s, had been killed by the "ruling gang and its thugs." At least 56 police officers and 183 civilians have been injured in the protests, and 45 people have been arrested, according to Algeria's security services. es,dj/jlw (dpa, Reuters,AFP) Every day, DW's editors send out a selection of the day's hard news and quality feature journalism. Sign up for the newsletter here.