There has been a lot of alarm in the past few years about the decline of bees and other insects, with the New York Times even going so far as to call it "Insect Armageddon." Although the German Entomological Conference in Halle, central Germany, is buzzing with activity, some of the entomologists themselves are markedly pessimistic. Read more: How to stop an insect apocalypse "We are ourselves an endangered species," said Jürgen Gross, President of the German Entomological Society. "We have a lot of dark clouds in the future. The specialists who have knowledge about different species are mainly old men." A giant moth held by an entomologist Taxonomists, who have the ability to identify insect by species, are particularly threatened, despite their work being more vital than ever. Wolfgang Wägele, director of the Alexander König Museum in Bonn warned DW that "in the universities we have lost nearly all experts. "Taxonomists are only surviving in natural history museums and in civil society," Wägele said. "We have a lot of citizen scientists who are real experts, but they are also dying out. In the NGOs you find mostly men over 50. The next generation is missing. We are pessimistic." But with all the problems in today’s world, why does this aging and relatively obscure science matter? "Entomology is extremely important because insects are the most diverse life forms that we have. There are more than a million species that we know of and there are estimates that there are two or three million out there that we don’t," Markus Riegler from Western Sidney University told DW. “ Up to a third of our global food production is lost to pests, so beneficial insects that control those pests are really important. We need to to be able to recognize and understand individual species and their responses to climate or environmental change." A relatively young Entomologist with Canada's agriculture ministry Not all doom and gloom There's a smattering of eager young faces at the conference. Among them is 21-year-old Ella Doveton, a biology student and scientific illustrator showcasing her impressive drawings of extinct insects in the coffee room, and talking with fellow under-50s about her insect playing card set. Responding to the future hopes of entomology, she was hopeful. "I think there is an age group of children, between seven and 12, who are very interested in insects. People interested in hands-on fieldwork aren’t in short supply, but what’s harder to find are people who can identify beetle species. They might be a bit greyer.” Bees have received particular attention due to their important role in ecology and pollination “In the future I’d like to become a real scientist, a researcher, and use the illustration as a plus," Doveton told DW. "The wealth of structures of form and function is so rich in biology." Riegler too had hopes in the broadening of the field. "One aspect that has seen an enormous change is that there are many citizen science projects that have picked up in the space of monitoring and collecting information about insect and biological diversity in general," he said. "This is a potential avenue to get people interested in the future." He’s right to be excited about Citizen Science. The group that first proved the 75 percent decline in insects was a volunteer team at the Krefeld Entomological Society, near Dusseldorf, a citizen science project that produced one of the most important scientific papers of the year. Over 40 percent of insect species face extinction: study So what kind of people become entomologists? Doveton's answer is clear. "Entomlogists are focused, interested in what they do. I don’t want to say I picture an old person but that’s what we see in reality. You find people who are quirky and excitable, who enjoy sharing what they love." But how can we get the next generation interested, practically? Besides being older white men, these insect-obsessives all had one thing in common: they began to hunt, collect, and identify insects at a young age. Gross began collecting insects at the age of five and gave his parents a lot of trouble with the insects he brought home, whereas Riegler’s dad dreamed of being an insect doctor, and encouraged his son in observing insects, keeping them in containers and learning how they function. Young people gather outside in Dortmund for a Pokemon Go "Safari" Could Pokemon Go lure in future entomologists? Markus Riegler noted that "although I’ve never been involved in Pokemon, I see the similarities. If I go walking out in nature I go looking for insects and I’m curious about them and I’m seeking them out in their environment and that’s a similarity with what Pokemon chasers [hunters] do." In his keynote speech, Wägeler talked about getting science out of its Ivory Tower and working with media companies to spread ideas. A Pokemon Go inspired augmented reality project could help do that. "I am sure if we use digital media in a playful way we can get more interest from young people," Wägeler said. "It’s possible to combine the Pokemon idea with the discovery of species in landscapes." Pokemon Go fans descend upon German park for two-day gaming event But Riegler warned that just getting young people and amateurs interested won’t cut it. If you want to make entomology into a career, it can be a challenge. "We need to make sure there are pathways to training and then job opportunities," Riegler said. "It needs a concerted effort in training as well as career development, so people can make a career out of their interest in insects." This beetle can measure up to 17cm in length, in part thanks to its enormous mandibles - the pair of appendages near its mouth. Also known as the 'sabertooth longhorn beetle' this insect dwells in the rainforests of Colombia, Ecuador, Peru, Bolivia, the Guianas and Brazil. There are 11 species of the giant weta in the world, and the largest can be up to 10cm in length - not including their spindly legs or long antennae. They're also known to be rather heavy - with one example recording 70g. The beetles are unique to New Zealand, and all but one species are considered endangered. Among the largest insects on earth, the Goliath beetle can measure up to 11cm and weigh 100 grams in the larval stage (although adults are around half this weight). There are five species of Goliath beetle. They're found in tropical rainforests in Africa, where they mainly eat tree sap and fruit. This butterfly is the largest in the world, with females' wingspans reaching just over 25cm. An endangered species, it is restricted to about 100km of coastal rainforest in the Oro Province in eastern Papua New Guinea. The species was named in 1907 in honor of Alexandra of Denmark. This is what's known as a 'spider wasp' because - yep, you guessed it - it hunts tarantula spiders. They use their sting - one of the most painful insect stings in the world - to paralyze their prey before hauling it to their nest, where they lay a single egg on the victim, which when it hatches to a larva eats the prey alive. At about 5cm long, it's one of the largest wasps in the animal kingdom. This is a species of rhinoceros beetle, known for its feisty behavior. Named after Atlas, a Titan condemned to hold up the sky for eternity in Greek mythology, the male beetles can reach up to 13cm in length. They're found in southern Asia, particularly Indonesia. The giant water bug encompasses a large species of carnivorous freshwater insects, which includes the 'Lethocerus' that can grow to more than 12cm in length. Their large foreleg pincers are used to catch underwater prey like small fish and frogs. In some places they're known as 'toe biters' because of their tendency to deliver a painful nip when disturbed by swimmers that get too close. This insect may have a tiny body, but it's wingspan measures a whopping 25-30cm, and it has a wing surface area of about 400cm squared. It lives in dry rainforests and shrublands throughout South Asia, South East Asia, and East Asia. It doesn't eat - it's only purpose as an adult is to find a mate, which takes around two weeks. Once they breed and the females lay eggs, they die. This exquisite insect is usually between 1.5cm and 16cm long, but can reach lengths of up to 20cm. They are carnivorous and feed mainly on other insects, although females sometimes eat their mate just after, or even during, mating. Formidable predators, the praying mantis can turn its head 180 degrees to observe its surroundings with all five of its eyes. Only officially discovered in 2016, the only recorded spotting of this superbly long stick insect measured it at 62.4cm. Found in the Guangxi Zhuang region of China by Zhao Li, of the Insect Museum of West China, it's the longest insect in the world. Li brought it back to the museum where it laid six eggs - after hatching, even the smallest offspring measured 26cm. Author: Charli Shield