Dutch investigators on Tuesday said they were "seriously" looking into a terrorist motive for the Utrecht tram attack after discovering a note in the main suspect's getaway car. "So far, a terrorist motive is seriously being taken into account," police and prosecutors said in a joint statement. "This is based on a letter found in the getaway car among other things and the nature of the facts." Turkish-born Gokmen Tanis remains in custody on suspicion of fatally shooting three people with possible terrorist intent. The 37-year-old was arrested at the end of a seven-hour manhunt that followed the shootings in the 24 Oktoberplein crossroads. Witnesses said the shooter fired at a woman on the tram and then attacked people who tried to help her. Two unnamed men from Utrecht, 23 and 27, also remain in custody, although police say their possible role is unclear. Send  Facebook   Twitter   google+   Whatsapp   Tumblr   linkedin   stumble   Digg   reddit   Newsvine Permalink https://p.dw.com/p/3FHaI The note was found in a red Renault Clio that was carjacked at around the time of the shooting on Monday morning. Prosecutors said they had so far been unable to find a connection between the victims and the suspected gunman, after reports that a family dispute might have been a motive for the attack. Dutch media have reported that Tanis had an extensive criminal background and had only been released from jail two weeks ago. Nation mourns victims Mourners began to lay flowers at the shooting scene on Tuesday, with flags flying at half-mast on many buildings around the country. The shooting in Utrecht took place on a tram at around 10.45 a.m. (0945 UTC) in a residential neighborhood. At least three people were killed in the attack. Counterterrorism forces were quickly deployed to the scene at Utrecht's 24 Oktoberplein junction. Police are treating the incident as a possible case of terrorism. The police said on Twitter that "multiple people have been injured." Ambulances arrived rapidly to transport them to hospital. Later, authorities said five people had been wounded. The gunman escaped the scene of the crime and police have been trying to find him. Schools were told to keep their doors closed while the search was going on. Dutch police even deployed mounted forces as they tried to ensure public safety following the attack. The public has been warned to stay indoors. Utrecht police published a photo of the suspected attacker caught by surveillance video. The named the man as Gökmen Tanis, a 37-year-old born in Turkey. They asked the public not to approach him and to call the authorities if they see him. Speaking at a press conference, Dutch Prime Minister Mark Rutte said "our democracy is stronger than fantacism and violence. We will never give in to intolerence." Dutch Prime Minister Mark Rutte chaired a Cabinet meeting to discuss the attack, which has raised security fears a day ahead of provincial elections in the Netherlands. "The motives for the attack are still unclear. For now, we are overcome by a sense of horror and disbelief at the terrible events of today," Rutte said in a statement on Monday evening. Public transport was also running again on Tuesday after forensic police finished their investigations and removed the tram on which the shooting took place. rc/msh (AFP, dpa, AP, Reuters) Each evening at 1830 UTC, DW's editors send out a selection of the day's hard news and quality feature journalism. You can sign up to receive it directly here.