The number of high-earners in the EU's banking industry rose by more than 5 percent in 2017 despite caps on bonuses, the European Banking Authority said in a report with its latest figures, published online Monday. "The number of high earners receiving remuneration of more than €1 million ($1.13 million) increased slightly from 4,597 to 4,859," the EBA said. It noted that it represented an increase of more than 40 percent compared to 2010, the year the euro crisis took shape. Read more: Brexit: Is the end nigh? 'Small increase' in UK The UK has the largest number of high earners, comprising more than 70 percent of all bankers making more than €1 million per year in the EU. "The largest population of high earners in the EU, of 3,567 is located in the United Kingdom," the EBA said. Germany trails in second, with only 390 high-earners. However, the EU's banking regulator said that only a "small increase" was witnessed in the UK compared to 2016, increasing by only 38 new high earners. Observers have said that the result of the 2016 Brexit referendum, in which British citizens narrowly voted in favor of leaving the EU, may have played a role. Read more: Opinion: What happened to Brexit architect David Cameron? London loses In 2014, EU regulation went into effect that stipulated a banker's bonus could not exceed one year's salary. The UK vigorously fought Brussels over the legislation, saying it threatened financial stability and made London a less competitive banking center. At the time, London was home to 40 percent of all EU financial services. But five years later, another factor has made the British capital significantly less attractive for the financial sector. A report published on Monday by the London-based think tank New Financial said that 275 financial firms are in the process of transferring more than €1 trillion worth of funds, assets and staff to other EU countries due to uncertainty over Brexit. Read more: Worried about Brexit, Brits stockpile food, supplies Every evening, DW's editors send out a selection of the day's hard news and quality feature journalism. You can sign up to receive it directly here. After a shrill referendum campaign, nearly 52 percent of British voters opted to leave the EU on June 24. Polls had shown a close race before the vote with a slight lead for those favoring remaining in the EU. Conservative British Prime Minister David Cameron, who had campaigned for Britain to stay, acknowledged the "will of the British people" and resigned the following morning. Former Home Secretary Theresa May replaced David Cameron as prime minister on July 11 and promised the country that "Brexit means Brexit." May had quietly supported the Remain campaign before the referendum. She did not initially say when her government would trigger Article 50 of the EU treaty to start the two-year talks leading to Britain's formal exit. May eventually signed a diplomatic letter over six months later on March 29, 2017 to trigger Article 50. Hours later, Britain's ambassador to the EU, Tim Barrow, handed the note to European Council President Donald Tusk. Britain's exit was officially set for March 29, 2019. Tusk ended his brief statement on the decision with: "We already miss you. Thank you and goodbye." British Brexit Secretary David Davis and the EU's chief negotiator, Michel Barnier, kicked off talks in Brussels on June 19. The first round ended with Britain reluctantly agreeing to follow the EU's timeline for the rest of the negotiations. The timeline split talks into two phases. The first would settle the terms of Britain's exit, and the second the terms of the EU-UK relationship post-Brexit. The second round of talks in mid-July began with an unflattering photo of a seemingly unprepared British team. It and subsequent rounds ended with little progress on three phase one issues: How much Britain still needed to pay into the EU budget after it leaves, the post-Brexit rights of EU and British citizens and whether Britain could keep an open border between Ireland and Northern Ireland. Progress appeared to have been made after round six in early November with Britain reportedly agreeing to pay up to £50 billion (€57 billion/$68 billion) for the "divorce bill." May had earlier said she was only willing to pay €20 billion, while the EU had calculated some €60 billion euros. Reports of Britain's concession sparked outrage among pro-Brexit politicians and media outlets. Leaders of the remaining 27 EU members formally agreed that "sufficient progress" had been made to move on to phase two issues: the post-Brexit transition period and the future UK-EU trading relationship. While Prime Minister Theresa May expressed her delight at the decision, European Council President Tusk ominously warned that the second stage of talks would be "dramatically difficult." British ministers appeared to back a Brexit plan at May's Chequers residence on July 6. The proposal would have kept Britain in a "combined customs territory" with the EU and signed up to a "common rulebook" on all goods. That went too far for British Foreign Minister Boris Johnson and Brexit Secretary David Davis, who resigned a few days later. May replaced them with Jeremy Hunt and Dominic Raab. May's Chequers proposal did not go down well with EU leaders, who told her at a summit in Salzburg in late September that it was unacceptable. EU Council President Tusk trolled May on Instagram, captioning a picture of himself and May looking at cakes with the line: "A piece of cake perhaps? Sorry, no cherries." The gag echoed previous EU accusations of British cherry-picking. EU leaders endorsed a 585-page draft divorce deal and political declaration on post-Brexit ties in late November. The draft had been widely condemned by pro- and anti-Brexit lawmakers in the British Parliament only weeks earlier. Brexit Secretary Dominic Raab resigned along with several other ministers, and dozens of Conservative Party members tried to trigger a no-confidence vote in May. In the face of unrelenting opposition, May postponed a parliamentary vote on the deal on December 10. The next day, she met with German Chancellor Angela Merkel to seek reassurances that would, she hoped, be enough to convince skeptical lawmakers to back the deal. But while she was away, hard-line Conservative lawmakers triggered a no-confidence vote. May won the vote a day later. The UK Parliament voted 432 to 202 against May's Brexit deal on January 16. In response to the result, European Council President Donald Tusk suggested the only solution was for the UK to stay in the EU. Meanwhile, Britain's Labour Party called for a no-confidence vote in the prime minister, her second leadership challenge in as many months. Author: Alexander Pearson