Five cross-country skiers arrested in connection with a criminal doping investigation have received provisional suspensions, the International Ski Federation (FIS) said on Friday. The FIS said it suspended Estonia's Karel Tammjarv and Andreas Veerpalu and Kazakhstan's Alexey Poltoranian. The other two skiers, Max Hauke and Dominik Baldauf of Austria, were suspended by the country's anti-doping agency. The five skiers were detained on Wednesday along with four others after German and Austrian authorities conducted raids in Erfurt, a city in central Germany, and Seefeld in western Austria where this year's Nordic Skiing World Championships are taking place. Austrian authorities said Hauke, 26, was "caught with a blood transfusion in his arm." All five have confessed to blood doping practices and have been released from custody. "While the events of the last few days have shed a negative light on the sport, it also sends a clear signal that doping will not be tolerated by FIS and comes with very steep consequences," FIS president Gian Franco Kasper said. "If there is a silver lining, I hope that this decisive action sends a clear message to other athletes and there will be severe personal, legal and sporting consequences against doping offenders." Send  Facebook   Twitter   google+   Whatsapp   Tumblr   linkedin   stumble   Digg   reddit   Newsvine Permalink https://p.dw.com/p/3EDwm Criminal doping network At the center of the probe is a doctor named Mark Schmidt, who was arrested in Erfurt along with one of his associates. Two of Schmidt's other alleged accomplices were detained in Seefeld and face extradition to Germany in the coming days. Austria's Federal Police Office said Wednesday that the raids targeted "a doping network operating worldwide." Investigators believe more than 40 blood bags were seized in Erfurt from the raids in an investigation that could go beyond skiing. Munich prosecutors, handling the German side of the case, said that the probe was sparked by an interview given by Austrian skier Johannes Duerr to German Broadcaster ARD. Duerr said he used transfusions and erythropoietin (EPO), which is a banned substance, to boost his stamina, with regular treatments in Germany. Both Austria and Germany have been aggressive in cracking down on doping, with Austria treating doping as a criminal matter in recent years. In the first known doping incident, coaches pumped a dangerous mix of strychnine and pure egg whites into Thomas Hicks before his marathon at the 1904 St. Louis Olympics. In the absence of guidelines at the time, he was declared the winner of the race - even after collapsing at the finishing line and hallucinating for hours. The boost may nearly have cost Hicks his life. Argentine soccer ace Diego Maradona has battled with substance abuse on two separate fronts: During the 1980s, he developed a serious cocaine habit that would follow him throughout his life and lead to some serious health scares, but he also tested positively for ephedrine in 1994, provoking a FIFA ban and the end of his prolific career as a midfielder. Born as Heidi, Krieger was a female shot putter for East Germany at the height of the Cold War. Communist officials fed Krieger with staggering amounts of steroids, altering her appearance. Krieger began to publicly identify as transgender and later opted to have gender reassignment surgery, becoming Andreas. A successful Canadian sprinter with a stellar track record, Johnson's doping scandal overshadowed much of the 1988 Seoul Olympics. When blood samples tested positive for stanozolol, he was disqualified three days after winning the gold medal in the 100-meter sprint. Though Johnson admitted to doping, he maintained that he had never taken stanolozol - implying that he might have been set up. Marion Jones was sentenced to six months in prison in 2008 after lying to US federal investigators about her part in the Bay Area Laboratory Co-Operative (BALCO) doping scandal. Jones, the most prominent athlete linked to the scandal, had denied all allegations against her but later tested positive for tetrahydrogestrinone supplied by BALCO, leading to the end of her career. Alex Rodriguez is one of the most successful baseball players of all time, producing numbers rarely seen since the days of fellow Yankees Joe DiMaggio in the 1940s and Babe Ruth in the '20s. Rodriguez was suspended for the 2014 season after admitting to steroid abuse. He has made a comeback and hopes to redeem himself by completing 700 home runs before he retires from the sport. He has 678. Ullrich was German cycling's poster child. He won the 1997 Tour de France and two medals at the 2000 Sydney Olympics and continued to compete internationally for several years before doping allegations first arose in 2006. He managed to dodge these until 2012, when a Court of Arbitration for Sport ruling found that he had used steroids for many years. A number of investigations between 2010 and 2012 led to Lance Armstrong's monumental downfall in January 2013. Although allegations had been levelled at him repeatedly, Armstrong managed to hide his steroid abuse for years. Having conquered testicular cancer, Armstrong was once a national hero who even hinted at a future career in politics in his native Texas. That's now history. Author: Sertan Sanderson dv/bw (AP, dpa) Each evening at 1830 UTC, DW's editors send out a selection of the day's hard news and quality feature journalism. You can sign up to receive it directly here.