Thomas Seibert, a reporter for the Berlin-based Tagesspiegel daily, and Jörg Brase, a correspondent for public broadcaster ZDF, flew to Germany on Sunday after their accreditation to work in Turkey was not renewed. They were told by the relevant authorities in Ankara about a week ago that their application for a new press card had not been approved. Turkish officials did not give a reason for the refusal. The incident has again weighed heavily on relations between Germany and Turkey. German Foreign Minister Heiko Maas on Saturday said on Twitter it was "unacceptable" that German correspondents could not do "their job freely" in Turkey. In an interview with Tagesspiegel, he said denying the journalists their right to report was "incompatible with our understanding of press freedom." Before their departure, both reporters criticized the actions of the Turkish government at a press conference in the ZDF studio in Istanbul. "It's an attempt to intimidate the foreign media and put pressure on them," Brase said, adding that the attempts would not work. Brase said he was considering moving to Tehran since the Iranian government had given him the necessary paperwork to live there. He had been working in Turkey since January 2018. ZDF is planning on taking legal action against the decision. Brase said he and Seibert want to continue reporting on Turkey, if necessary from abroad. Read more: A return to dark days for journalists in Turkey Turkish-German relations The relationship between Berlin and Ankara had been strained following the failed 2016 coup and the arrest by Turkish authorities of tens of thousands of people including Germans. However, after the release of German citizens including German-Turkish journalist Deniz Yucel and journalist Mesale Tolu, ties slightly improved. Turkey's decision not to accredit many foreign journalists has put renewed strain on relations with Germany On Saturday however, the German government tightened its travel advice for Turkey, referring to possible "further action against representatives of the German media and civil society institutions." Currently, about a dozen German correspondents and a number of other international journalists are still waiting for their new annual press accreditation more than two months after their old documents expired, Press cards are considered work permits and the basis for issuing a residence permit. Media rights activists have criticized the denials and delays of the accreditation as a violation of the freedom of the press. av/sms (AP, dpa, AFP) Each evening at 1830 UTC, DW's editors send out a selection of the day's hard news and quality feature journalism. You can sign up to receive it directly here.