Emotional relatives of those aboard Flight MH370 on Friday demanded answers to one of the world's greatest aviation mysteries and called for the hunt to resume, five years on from the plane's disappearance. The Malaysia Airlines jet, a Boeing 777-200ER aircraft, disappeared after it stopped sending communications hours into its flight on March 8, 2014. It was carrying 239 people — mostly from China — en route from Kuala Lumpur to Beijing. The subsequent hunt formed one of the largest surface and underwater searches in aviation history. The plane's final resting place remains unknown. No sign of it was found in a 120,000-square kilometer (46,000-square mile) Indian Ocean search zone and the Australian-led hunt, the largest in aviation history, was suspended in January 2017. Read more: 'We'll continue to seek the truth about Flight MH370' A US exploration firm launched a private hunt last year but it ended after several months of scouring the seabed without success. In a DW interview, Jiang Hui, whose mother was in the flight, spoke about the difficult times the families of those on board the disappeared aircraft have been facing over the past five years. Send  Facebook   Twitter   google+   Whatsapp   Tumblr   linkedin   stumble   Digg   reddit   Newsvine Permalink https://p.dw.com/p/3EeqF DW: It's been five years since Flight MH370 vanished mid-air en route from Kuala Lumpur to Beijing. How are the families of those on board the aircraft coping with this tragedy? Jiang Hui: The families of the relatives are not satisfied with the investigation into the missing aircraft. Every year on March 8, we try to petition the Chinese foreign ministry and the Malaysian Embassy in Beijing. We also want to make a statement by marking the anniversary every year. The investigation has so far not produced results. No matter how long it takes — three, five or 10 years — the families will not give up. Some of our requests are not new. Many family members, for instance, are in dire need of psychological support, as they are facing serious mental health problems. What do you mean by serious problems? Many are facing depression and other mental illnesses. The affected families are also facing other problems, including financial ones. Two years ago, Malaysia Airlines stopped paying the compensation it initially promised, a move that caused great difficulties for the families. So we demand the airliner to honor its compensation commitments in accordance with its obligations under the international convention. Read more: Malaysia's civil aviation chief resigns over MH370 failures So Malaysia Airlines paid some money to the victims two years ago? Yes, they agreed to pay, but it was not a long-term offer. Also at the time, some families were unwilling to accept the money. But five years after the incident, the situation now is much harder for the families. Many of them have lost their main income source, and they are in urgent need of financial assistance. Malaysia Airlines has stated that it's not going to pay any compensation if we don't sign a settlement agreement, which means forcing family members to sign a full exemption settlement in exchange for money. It is shameless and ugly. We therefore urge the Chinese foreign ministry to take the issue up with the Malaysian government. We also go through the Chinese courts, but the legal process will take a relatively long time to conclude. We hope that all the parties will converge through political and diplomatic means. We also sense a change in the way the Malaysian government under Prime Minister Mahathir Mohammed is dealing with the issue of MH370. Malaysia's transport minister recently met us and announced plans to restart the search for the missing flight. We hope that the Chinese government will also issue a statement on restarting the search. On March 8, Malaysia Airlines Flight MH370 bound for Beijing takes off from Kuala Lumpur International Airport at 12:41 a.m., with 239 people on board. However, 26 minutes after departure, the Aircraft Communications Addressing and Reporting System (ACARS), which transmits key information on the plane's mechanical condition, is switched off. As the Boeing 777 passes from Malaysian to Vietnamese air traffic control a few minutes later, someone in the plane's cockpit says "Good night Malaysian three seven zero." The airline believes it is co-pilot Fariq Abdul Hamid speaking. The aircraft is flying in good weather conditions. The plane drops off civilian air traffic control screens as its transponder, which relays information on the plane's location and altitude, is shut down at around 1:31 a.m. As military radar plot the passenger jet at 2:15 a.m., it is located at a point south of the island of Phuket in the Strait of Malacca, hundreds of miles off course. The aircraft's last communication with satellites seven hours later place it somewhere in one of two corridors: a northern corridor stretching from northern Thailand to the border of Kazakhstan and Turkmenistan, or a southern one stretching from Indonesia to the southern Indian Ocean. The last signal is received at 8:11 a.m., suggesting that the plane may have flown on for hours. Shortly after the disappearance, Malaysia and Vietnam mount a joint search and rescue mission. The search area is quickly expanded to 100 nautical miles to cover part of the Gulf of Thailand between Malaysia and Vietnam. It also emerges that two passengers had been using stolen EU passports, fueling fears of a terrorist attack. Police later find that the men were illegal Iranian immigrants. By March 12, the search area for the aircraft encompasses both sides of peninsular Malaysia, over an area of nearly 27,000 square nautical miles (more than 90,000 square kilometers), with a total of 12 countries participating in the operation. A Chinese satellite discovers three large objects floating in the South China Sea that could be debris belonging to the missing airliner. Two days later, Malaysian PM Najib Razak (seen here right) confirms the plane turned back from its planned flight path and adds the movements "are consistent with deliberate action by someone on the plane." Authorities launch a criminal investigation, refocusing on the crew and the identity and background of the passengers on board. The homes of both the captain and the co-pilot are searched. Eleven days after the incident, the number of countries involved in the search for the plane increases from 14 to 26, with investigators focusing on the two large corridors the plane may have flown. The search area now covers 2.24 million square nautical miles. French investigators join in to lend expertise from the Air France jet that crashed in the Atlantic Ocean in 2009. Officials reveal a new timeline suggesting the plane's final voice transmission may have occurred before the communications systems were disabled. Authorities are looking into hijacking, sabotage, or pilot suicide as potential reasons for the disappearance, but background checks of people aboard have yet to point to anyone with a known political or criminal motive to crash or hijack the plane. Conflicting theories emerge seeking to explain the incident. But without any identified wreckage, it is hard to establish facts. This prolongs the painful wait for the relatives and friends of those who have gone missing. There were people from 14 different countries on board, with the majority of passengers hailing from China (153) and Malaysia (38). On March 24, Malaysian PM Najib Razak announces that new satellite data suggests Flight MH370 crashed in the southern Indian Ocean with all 239 people aboard presumed dead. The statement unleashes a storm of sorrow and anger among the relatives of the missing. Angry family members - who have complained about a lack of reliable information - demonstrate in front of the Malaysian Embassy in Beijing. But anticipation repeatedly turns into frustration as objects spotted from planes turn out to be garbage. It's a time-wasting distraction for air and sea crews searching for debris. Sometimes the object traced in the water is a snarled fishing line, a buoy or something that might once have been the lid to an ice box. On April 3, nearly a month after the flight's disappearance, authorities remain baffled as to how and why it happened. Malaysian Police Chief Khalid Abu Bakar warns that unless the black box is found, the mystery may never be solved. Premier Najib Razak (R) says the search won't stop until answers are found, as his Australian counterpart Tony Abbott calls it "the most difficult in human history." On April 5, a Chinese vessel reports hearing a "pulse signal" in the Indian Ocean. Two days later, an Australian ship detects two distinct, long-lasting sounds consistent with the pings from aircraft black boxes. The international team subsequently scours roughly 850 square kilometers (330 square miles) of the southern Indian Ocean for weeks, but fails to find any evidence of a wreckage. In October, Australia shifts the search area further south to where the UK-based satellite company Immarsat calculated the plane probably went down based on brief hourly connections the plane made to one of its satellites. The area, west of Perth, Australia, along a narrow arc in the southern Indian Ocean is identified as the most likely resting place of the jet. But for months nothing is found. In late January 2015, Malaysia's Department of Civil Aviation officially declared the flight was an accident, and that all people on board were presumed dead. The announcement was in line with global aviation rules that allow families of the passengers to seek compensation. Malaysian officials said they had not ruled out foul play and that the recovery of the missing plane remained a priority. However, some families of the passengers aboard Flight MH370 refuse to accept Malaysia's conclusion that the plane's disappearance was an accident. Shortly after, Sarah Bajc, whose partner Philip Wood was on the aircraft, tells DW this is a "convenient excuse," arguing that no evidence has been found to support the authorities' claim. In its efforts to improve global flight safety following the disappearance of MH370, the International Civil Aviation Organization recently proposed a new measure that will require commercial aircraft to report their position every 15 minutes. The guideline is the first stage of a proposal called the Global Aeronautical Distress and Safety System that aims to ensure planes can be tracked quickly. Chinese families of passengers aboard the flight continue to protest the handling of the search efforts by the Malaysian authorities. They hold prayers and demonstrations on the occasion of the Chinese New Year. The search teams looking for the missing airliner have so far met many challenges. Some of them are associated with the search area. The remoteness and the size of the area mean that every aspect of the operation must be planned and undertaken meticulously. The search for MH370 is already the most expensive of its kind ever undertaken. Author: Gabriel Domínguez How have family members been able to support each other for the past five years? Our group hasn't changed much over the past 3-4 years. The families are still communicating with each other, mainly through WeChat as well as with the help of the bi-monthly meetings organized by Malaysia Airlines, and some small-scale gatherings. We help each other and support each other. To be honest, if there is no mutual understanding and support between family members, it would have been even more difficult to go through all these years. How do you view the Chinese government's efforts in this regard over the past five years? I really can't answer this question. I can only say that the Chinese foreign ministry and civil aviation authority could have done a lot more. I don't deny, however, that they have done a lot of work. Still, there is more room for improvement. One fact that cannot be denied is that the world's attention to the MH370 incident has declined considerably. What's your take on this development? It is normal and we can't change it. We try our level best to make sure that it receives the attention it deserves. But regardless of whether the world is concerned or not, we will not give up our efforts to continue the search for our relatives and the aircraft. This is definitely not going to happen. The interview was conducted by Li Shitao. It has been edited and condensed for clarity. Send  Facebook   Twitter   google+   Whatsapp   Tumblr   linkedin   stumble   Digg   reddit   Newsvine Permalink https://p.dw.com/p/2yX2g