Councilors in the central German city of Mühlhausen have decided on a new location for a sausage museum after original plans to move it to the site of an annex to the notorious Buchenwald concentration camp met with outrage in several quarters. The new site, though only a stone's throw from the first, is reportedly free of any troubled historical associations, Germany's dpa news agency reported. The German Sausage Museum, currently located in the nearby town of Holzhausen, is a major tourist attraction that reflects the long history of sausage in the state of Thuringia, where both towns are situated. The museum is to be moved because of growing visitor numbers. Read more: When a former Nazi forced labor camp houses a bowling club 'Historically ignorant' The originally planned location was where hundreds of female Jewish forced laborers from Poland and Hungary were incarcerated under the Nazi regime during the last two years of World War II. Many of those imprisoned at the Martha II concentration camp in Mühlhausen were later transferred to the Bergen-Belsen concentration camp, where a large number died of starvation or illness under atrocious conditions. The original plan had been criticized from many sides, notably by Jewish representatives. The president of the Jewish Community of Thuringia, Reinhard Schramm, spoke of a "total lack of sensitivity," while Josef Schuster, president of the Central Council of Jews in Germany, described the first plan to the German news agency DPA as "insensitive and historically ignorant." A statement on the museum's website at the start of February apologized to "all those who saw our actions as downplaying or relativizing the crimes of National Socialism." The museum said that "if we had had all information" about the site earlier, it would not have publicly announced its intention to move. Thuringian sausage, known locally as "Rostbratwurst" or "Roster," made from pork, beef or sometimes veal, dates back several centuries and is seen by Thuringians as a central feature of the region's grill culture. The state's Thüringer Rostbratwurst has also received Protected Geographical Indication status from the European Union, meaning only sausages from the region can use the name. Read more: Will 2019 be the year of lab-grown meat? This hotel in Rittersbach in Bavaria, is all about a specific German sausage: bratwurst - bratwurst wallpaper, bratwurst-shaped pillows and bratwurst decorations everywhere. On the ground floor there's a bratwurst restaurant with a butcher's shop next door that delivers the goods fresh. Guests can request individually-filled sausages and take them home as souvenirs - or just eat them. Criminals used to serve time here. Nowadays whodunnit enthusiasts spend the night in these cells. Kaiserslautern's former prison now houses the Alcatraz adventure hotel. Even the hotel bar still has plenty of bars - the steel kind - but of course guests are free to move around as they please. Each room is unique. In one, you can spend the night in a coffin; in another, the furniture hangs from the ceiling. The highlight is a polygonal room entirely covered in mirrors. The Berlin hotel Propeller Island sees itself as an all-round work of art, designed by artist Lars Stroschen. He's even composed fitting background music for each room. In Jüterbog, 60 kilometers from Berlin, you can experience the flair of the Trans-Siberian Express without days of travel. The Schlafwagenhotel - sleeping car hotel - has room for 25 guests. Each compartment has a double bed, a seating area and ensuite bathroom. It's possibly the world's smallest hotel, if you can even call it that: the Kofftel in Lunzenau near Chemnitz. The suitcase-shaped sleeping cabin has been in existence since 2004. It's a meter and a half wide, just under three meters long and two meters tall. Spending the night there in your own sleeping bag costs about 15 euros. You don't have to travel to Middle Earth or the film sets in New Zealand to spend the night in a hobbit hole. In the Feriendorf Auenland - The Shire Holiday Village - in the Thuringian Forest, Tolkien fans can stay in compact holiday quarters, each with a bedroom, cosy living area and bath. It's twilight, the wolves are howling, and there's not another human in sight. If you're looking for adventure, spend the night in the Tree Inn near Bremen. This tree house hotel is in the middle of the young wolf enclosure in Dörverden's Wolf Center. From a height of five meters, a glass facade gives you a clear view of the animals. Now you can sleep where wine was once matured. Six large wine casks stand in the inner courtyard of the Lindenwirt Hotel in the wine-making town of Rüdesheim on the Rhine. With their 6000 liter capacity, each barrel has enough space for two guest beds, plus an extension with a small living room and a bathroom. The Arthus Hotel near Lake Constance invites you to journey into the past. The rooms are furnished like those in a medieval inn, and the Ritterkeller restaurant offers Arthurian feasts. A cup-bearer guides you through the evening as you dine in historical style. The drinks at the bar in the Iglu-Lodge are guaranteed to be ice cold! The ice and snow hotel atop Mount Nebelhorn near Oberstdorf is open from December to mid-April. Its two- and four-person igloos can accommodate up to 40 guests. Their interior decoration is designed by local artists from the Allgäu region. The hotel at an elevation of 2000 meters provides a panoramic view of the Alpine summits. Author: Elisabeth Yorck von Wartenburg Each evening at 1830 UTC, DW's editors send out a selection of the day's hard news and quality feature journalism. You can sign up to receive it directly here.