As the opponent he's both faced and lost against most in his career, those with an eye for a narrative arc would have hoped Arjen Robben might have played one last time against Borussia Dortmund, before leaving Bayern Munich and riding off in to the sunset. But the 35-year-old Dutch winger, who will leave the club he joined in 2009 at the end of the season, believes the April 6 meeting will come too soon. "I still don't know whether I will be fit, we will have to see, but I think it is probably unrealistic," Robben told Munich newspaper Abendzeitung on Wednesday. "I am on the road to recovery, but I am not yet training with the team," he added. "I think it will take a bit more time. All I can do is keep working hard and fighting to get back on the pitch." Road to redemption The man who scored the 89th-minute winning goal against Dortmund in the 2013 Champions League final has also had low moments in his 19 meetings with the Black and Yellows. Perhaps the nadir came 13 months earlier, in April 2012, when his penalty miss drew taunts from Neven Subotic, whose Dortmund side would eventually go on to win the title. Arjen Robben lifts the trophy after scoring a late winner in the 2013 Champions League final The redemption that came with that late goal at Wembley in 2013 has been something of a theme throughout Robben's career, with a succession of serious injuries failing to slow down a player whose pace has always been high on his list of assets. And he believes he'll get at least one more chance to add a footnote to a highly-decorated career. "These are my last two months at a club where I have spent 10 years. I want to play again, to pull on the shirt one more time," he said. "That is the most important thing for me. I don't care which game it is." Whether he'll also be able to add an eighth Bundesliga title will be decided not just by Der Klassiker next weekend but by Bayern and Dortmund's other seven fixtures between now and the end of the season. Dortmund injuries clearing ahead of Wolfsburg visit The run in starts this weekend, with Bayern, in ominous form, traveling to Freiburg, and Dortmund hosting a Wolfsburg side on a strong run - other than a 6-0 pasting from Bayern at the start of the month. Mario Götze has recovered from a rib injury The Bavarians, who top the table on goal difference and splashed the cash on Lucas Hernandez in midweek, have few other injury concerns while the fitness woes that have hampered Dortmund's fluency in recent weeks seem also to be clearing. "The boys have come back fit from the international break," reported BVB coach Lucien Favre on Thursday. "Only Christian Pulisic, unfortunately, has returned with a pulled muscle in his leg. "(Mario) Götze,  (Paco) Alcacer, and (Axel) Witsel have all been training since last Thursday and we hope to have them fit for Saturday." Though he didn't mention it, Favre will also be desperate to keep Marco Reus, who missed most of Germany's win over the Netherlands with a thigh complaint, fit for the run in and particularly the clash with Bayern at the Allianz Arena. It looks like, for a change, Robben won't be lining up in opposition. But if the Dutch winger has his way, the Bundesliga will see him again. Or get a glimpse at least. His transfer to Barcelona from Borussia Dortmund will be the most expensive ever involving a Bundesliga club. Dortmund will receive 105 million euros plus further add-ons. Not bad for a 20-year-old who is not yet the finished article. Having secured one French World Cup winner in Benjamin Pavard, Bayern Munich snapped another early on in 2019. Defender Lucas Hernandez will join the record Bundesliga champions for the start of the 2019/20 season for a hefty €80 million. The fee makes him both Bayern and the Bundesliga's most expensive signing. The 2015-16 Bundesliga season started with a transfer supernova as well. Wolfsburg's talented playmaker left for Manchester City for a reported 74 million euros. At the time, no German team had ever earned that much from a player sale. Keita signed with Leipzig from Salzburg for 15-million-euro fee, but he will only wind up playing two seasons in Germany. Why? Because Liverpool are set to acquire him after the 2017-18 season for a reported total of 70 million euros. That's a pretty good profit for the Red Bull machine. The following summer saw another Bundesliga club cash in on one of their young talents, as Leroy Sané moved from Schalke to Manchester City. The fee for the Germany player was reported to be north of 50 million euros. Switzerland international Granit Xhaka was a nice little earner for Borussia Mönchengladbach in the summer of 2017. Having moved to Gladbach from Basel for around 8.5 million euros in 2012, the Foals sold him on to Arsenal for a reported 45 million euros. Having joined Wolfsburg from Schalke a year earlier, in the summer of 2016, Julian Draxler decided he didn't want to play there either. He went through the motions for the first half of the season. In January 2017 he got his wish - a move to PSG worth a reported 40 million euros. It looks to have been a losing proposition for Wolfsburg, as they are thought to have paid 43 million for him. Are those euro signs in Borussia Dortmund chairman Hans-Joachim Watzke's eyes? Henrikh Mkhitaryan, who had joined the Ruhr district club from Shakhtar Donetsk for 27.5 million in 2013, moved on to Manchester United for a reported 42 million euros in the summer of 2016. Bayern Munich broke their own transfer record with the 41.5 million euro purchase of French midfielder Corentin Tolisso from Lyon in June 2017, making him the most expensive player ever to be brought into the Bundesliga. For a short time, Brazilian Roberto Firmino held the record for the biggest sale of a Bundesliga player. In the summer of 2015, Liverpool paid Hoffenheim 41 million euros for his services. Bayern Munich splashed 40 million euros to acquire Javi Martinez from Athletic Bilbao, but it turned out to be money well spent. Martinez helped the Bavarians win five straight Bundesliga titles, the first of which came as part of a European treble.