Thailand's pro-military party has taken the lead in the country's first general election since the military coup of 2014, according to preliminary results. The vote pits a royalist junta headed by former general Prime Minister Prayuth Chan-ocha against a "democratic front" led by the political party he ousted. Electoral Commission figures show: Read more: A moment of shock for Thailand's military Democracy or chaos? Pheu Thai Secretary General Phumtham Wechayachai said his party believed there were voting irregularities. "It will be clearer once the official result is announced," he said. After casting his vote, Prime Minister Prayuth Chan-ocha told reporters: "I am happy to see citizens come out and exercise their voting rights." The vote was foreshadowed by a cryptic last-minute warning from King Maha Vajiralongkorn, who urged voters to support "good" leaders to prevent "chaos." "I am old enough to choose myself" began trending on social media late Saturday in defiance of the king's statement. What's the election about? Thai voters are electing lawmakers to the 500-seat House of Representatives, the lower house of parliament, which along with the upper chamber, the Senate — appointed entirely by the ruling junta — will select the next government. Critics slam voting system: Critics say the system, which was revised by the military junta, favors pro-military parties. They claim it is rigged to prevent Pheu Thai, which is linked to former Prime Minister Thaksin Shinawatra, from returning to power. Chief of oldest party steps down: The Democrat Party came in fifth place, according to preliminary results. Its leader, former Prime Minister Abhisit Vejjajiva, resigned in response. Millions of new voters: More than 7 million younger voters were able to cast their ballot for the first time, with the last election having taken place in 2011. kw,rc/amp (dpa, Reuters) Each evening at 1830 UTC, DW's editors send out a selection of the day's hard news and quality feature journalism. You can sign up to receive it directly here.