Special Counsel Robert Mueller has submitted his long-awaited report on US President Donald Trump's 2016 election campaign, the US Justice Department said on Friday. Former FBI chief Mueller has been investigating Trump and his aides' alleged Russian links and obstruction of justice for nearly two years. The report should provide deep insights into the actions of Trump's aides and possibly even the president himself. What we know so far Read more: Why the Mueller report will not end Trump's predicament June 18, 2013. Donald Trump tweeted: "The Miss Universe Pageant will be broadcast live from MOSCOW, RUSSIA on November 9. A big deal that will bring our countries together!" He later added: "Do you think Putin will be going - if so, will he become my new best friend?" October 17, 2013 Trump tells chat show host David Letterman he has conducted "a lot of business with the Russians." An FBI agent tells a tech-support contractor at the Democratic National Committee it may have been hacked. On May 18, 2016, James Clapper, the director of National Intelligence, says there were "some indications" of cyberattacks aimed at the presidential campaigns. On June 14, 2016 the DNC announces it had been the victim of an attack by Russian hackers. Senator Jeff Sessions — an early Trump endorser who led his national security advisory committee — meets Russian Ambassador Sergey Kislyak and a group of other ambassadors at a Republican National Convention event. Julian Assange's WikiLeaks publishes 20,000 emails stolen from the DNC, appearing to show a preference for Hillary Clinton over Senator Bernie Sanders. The FBI announces it is investigating the DNC hack saying "a compromise of this nature is something we take very seriously." Donald Trump is elected president of the United States. On November 9, the Russian parliament burst into applause at the news. Russian Deputy Foreign Minister Sergey Rybakov says there "were contacts" between the Russian government and the Trump campaign during the election campaign. The Trump campaign issues a firm denial. Trump names General Michael Flynn as his national security adviser. The former Defence Intelligence Agency chief was a top foreign policy adviser in Trump's campaign. Flynn resigned in February after failing to disclose full details of his communication with Russian Ambassador Sergey Kislyak. Acting Attorney General Sally Yates tells White House counsel Don McGahn that Flynn made false statements regarding his calls with Kislyak. On January 30 Trump fires Yates for refusing to enforce his travel ban, which was later blocked by federal courts. Trump says he has "total confidence" in Attorney General Jeff Sessions. Sessions announces he will recuse himself from any investigation into ties between Russia and the Trump campaign. FBI Director James Comey confirms before the House Select Committee on Intelligence that the FBI was investigating possible links between Russia and the Trump campaign. In a letter announcing the termination, Trump writes: "While I greatly appreciate you informing me, on three separate occasions, that I am not under investigation, I nevertheless concur with the judgment of the Department of Justice that you are not able to effectively lead the Bureau." Deputy Attorney General Rod Rosenstein appoints former FBI Director Robert Mueller to look into Russia’s interference in the 2016 election and possible collusion with the Trump campaign. Shortly after Mueller convenes a grand jury for the investigation, the FBI seizes documents from one of Paul Manafort’s properties as part of a raid for Mueller’s probe. The former Trump campaigner manager stepped down in August 2016 after allegations surfaced that he had received large payments linked to Ukraine’s former pro-Russian government. Donald Trump Jr. tells the Senate Judiciary Committee he has not colluded with a foreign government. The closed-door interview relates to his June 2016 meeting with Russian lawyer Natalia Veselnitskaya, which was also attended by his brother-in-law, Jared Kushner, and then campaign manager Paul Manafort. Trump Jr.’s emails, however, suggest the meeting was supposed to produce dirt on Clinton. Facebook, Twitter and Google reportedly tell US media they have evidence that Russian operatives exploited platforms to spread disinformation during the 2016 US presidential election. The three companies are appear before the Senate Intelligence Committee in November 2017. Trump and Russian President Vladimir Putin meet in Helsinki for their first-ever summit. During the trip, Trump publically contradicts the findings of US intelligence agencies who concluded that Russia interfered in the 2016 presidential election. Attorney General Jeff Sessions resigns from his post, under reported pressure from Trump. The president then appoints a critic of the Mueller probe as his successor, but later nominates William Barr to be the next attorney general in December 2018. Trump's former long-time personal lawyer, Michael Cohen, pleads guilty to lying to Congress about discussions in 2016 on plans to build a Trump Tower in Moscow. The FBI raided his home earlier that year in April. He would later be sentenced to three years in prison. In 2019, he tells Congress that Trump is a "racist" and a "con man." Roger Stone, a longtime Trump associate and Republican operative, is arrested at his home in Florida for lying to Congress about having advance knowledge of plans by WikiLeaks to release emails from the Democratic Party that US officials say were stolen by Russia. Manafort is found guilty of conspiracy charges and handed an additional sentence, bringing his total prison sentence to 7.5 years. In August 2018, a court in Virginia found him guilty of eight charges, including tax and bank fraud. He also pleaded guilty to two conspiracy counts. Special Counsel Robert Mueller submits a confidential report on the findings of his investigation to the US Justice Department. Officials say the main conclusions of the report will be made public when they are given to Congress. Author: Rebecca Staudenmaier, Jo Harper, Kathleen Schuster No 'sneak preview' In a letter to US Congress, Barr said he was committed to "as much transparency as possible." The White House said it has "not received or been briefed on the Special Counsel's report." Read more: Donald Trump says he 'never worked for Russia' Senate Majority Leader and Republican lawmaker Mitch McConnell said he hoped Barr would "provide as much information as possible" as soon as he could. In a separate statement, Congressman Doug Collins, the top Republican on Congress' Judiciary Committee, said Mueller's report should be released to the public "without delay." Top Democratic lawmakers Nancy Pelosi and Chuck Schumer also called for the full report to be released to the public. "The American people have a right to the truth," they said in a statement. They also said that Barr "must not give President Trump, his lawyers or his staff any 'sneak preview' of ... Mueller's findings or evidence." The statement came just before Trump lawyer and former New York mayor Rudy Giuliani said Trump's legal team wanted to have an early look on Mueller's report before its public release. Potentially explosive: The full contents of the report are unknown at this point; however, the probe has already triggered felony charges against six people who served on Trump's campaign team, as well as 28 other individuals. Both Trump and the Russian government have denied any wrongdoing. The US president has repeatedly described it as a "witch hunt." What did the investigation cover? Robert Mueller was authorized to look into "any links and/or coordination between the Russian government and individuals associated with the campaign of President Donald Trump." He could also investigate "perjury, obstruction of justice, destruction of evidence, and intimidation of witnesses" committed against his own probe, as well as other matters triggered by the investigation. Who has been implicated in the probe? Several key Trump aides already faced court over the alleged Moscow links. Trump's former campaign chief Paul Manafort was found guilty of lying to prosecutors about three matters concerning the Russia probe, including his contacts with Russian national Konstantin Kilimnik. Mueller's team believe Kilimnik to be an agent of the Kremlin. US prosecutors claim Manafort also tried to hide millions of dollars he was paid by pro-Russian politicians, for whom he worked as a political consultant, in Ukraine. Michael Flynn, Trump's appointee for national security adviser, admitted to lying to the FBI about his contacts with the Russian ambassador at the time. Flynn misled the agents by claiming that he never discussed US sanctions on Russia with the envoy. Trump's longtime aide Roger Stone has been charged with sharing advance information about the Wikileaks release of hacked Democratic Party emails. US officials believe the emails were stolen by Russia. Stone has denied wrongdoing. Following the submission of the report on Friday, US media widely reported that Mueller and his team did not recommend any new indictments. Will the report be released? The decision about sharing the report with the public rests with Attorney General Barr. Earlier this month, US lawmakers unanimously approved a non-binding resolution demanding the report be released. Some Democratic lawmakers have speculated about issuing a subpoena to Mueller and requesting the final report. In that case, Trump would have the option of ordering the Justice Department to defy the move, taking to fight to the courts. On Friday, US House Intelligence Committee head Adam Schiff told CNN that his committee would need to subpoena Mueller or others if US lawmakers are not given underlying evidence used for the Mueller report. Every day, DW's editors send out a selection of the day's hard news and quality feature journalism. Sign up for the newsletter here. dj/aw (AP, Reuters)