A man known only as the "London patient" has become the second known adult to be free of the AIDS virus following a bone marrow transplant, doctors said Tuesday. The journal Nature reported that he underwent the procedure in 2016 to treat a type of blood cancer called Hodgkin's Lymphoma. The stem cells he received came from a donor with a rare genetic mutation that resists most HIV strains. Doctors say he's in sustained remission and has shown no sign of the virus for 18 months. Read more: Opinion: Why we should stop human gene editing How does the treatment work? Read more: Second HIV patient cleared of AIDS-causing virus Send  Facebook   Twitter   google+   Whatsapp   Tumblr   linkedin   stumble   Digg   reddit   Newsvine Permalink https://p.dw.com/p/3EUV9 Possible risks and side effects While the remission of the "London patient" is being celebrated, such transplants are unlikely to be adopted as a routine treatment option for people infected with HIV. That's because the procedure is dangerous, costly and is intended only as a last-stage therapy for patients with life-threatening diseases. Currently, people infected with HIV can keep the virus in check and live relatively normal lives for many years  by taking antiretroviral drugs. Stem cell transplants, on the other hand, are highly invasive and can result in complications or side effects that can persist for years afterwards. Send  Facebook   Twitter   google+   Whatsapp   Tumblr   linkedin   stumble   Digg   reddit   Newsvine Permalink https://p.dw.com/p/3CpRB Two cases of success The "London patient" is only the second known person to have been cleared of HIV via this method. The first, Timothy Brown, 52, was declared cured in 2008 after having bone marrow transplants for leukemia. Brown almost died during the treatment, with his immune system left severely battered. He suffered graft-versus-host disease — when the donor immune cells attack the recipient's immune cells — and at one point had to be placed in an induced coma. The "London patient" suffered fewer harmful effects, although he also had mild graft-versus-host disease in the gut. Scientists had long been trying to replicate the success achieved with Brown 10 years ago. Following most attempts, the viruses rebounded after just a few months, or patients died from the cancer. Navneet Majhail, director of the Blood & Marrow Transplant Program at the Cleveland Clinic in Ohio, pointed out on Twitter that finding a donor can also be a huge challenge. Just 1 percent of people descended from northern Europeans have the HIV-resistant mutation. It is rarer still in other populations. Read more: 5 things to know about the HIV-prevention drug, PrEP Send  Facebook   Twitter   google+   Whatsapp   Tumblr   linkedin   stumble   Digg   reddit   Newsvine Permalink https://p.dw.com/p/38xNp How has the news been received? Experts say the outcome of the stem cell treatment offers hope for a future cure for HIV/AIDS, but many have also questioned its relevance for the millions of people already infected. Anton Pozniak, president of the International AIDS Society, said it represented a "critical moment." "The hope is that this will eventually lead to a safe, cost-effective and easy strategy ... using gene technology or antibody techniques," he said. Matthew Hodson, director of NAM aidsmap, an organization that provides information to support people living with HIV, said: "It would be unwise to think that we are on the brink of curing HIV when, after two decades (of having the medical resources to treat HIV) we have still not been able to provide treatment for all." Thurka Sangaramoorthy, associate professor at the University of Maryland, whose work focuses on HIV/AIDS, called for focus, money and resources not to be shifted away from those living with HIV around the world. "This is not a treatment appropriate for people with HIV who do not have cancer," the US-based Treatment Action Group said in a statement. "The hope is that lessons can be learned to help develop more widely applicable therapeutic approaches for attaining HIV remissions or cures." Read more: Top 10 most dangerous viruses in the world Former South African president Thabo Mbeki (1999 - 2008) went down in history as the foremost African denier of AIDS. Against all scientific evidence he maintained that HIV did not cause AIDS. He instructed his health officials to combat the disease with herbal remedies. Experts believe his denialism cost up to 300,000 lives. Some have called for Mbeki to be tried for crimes against humanity. In 2007 former Gambian president Yahya Jammeh (1996 - 2017) forced AIDS patients to undergo a cure that he had personally developed. It turned out to be a concoction based on herbs; an unknown number of people died. Jammeh, who claimed that he had mystic powers, is the first African head of state to be tried for violating the rights of HIV-positive people. Another former South African head of state to make headlines for an unconventional take on AIDS was Jacob Zuma (2009 - 2018). After being charged with raping an HIV-positive woman in 2006, Zuma said he was not at risk of infection, despite not using a condom, because he had "taken a shower afterwards." In 2010 he disclosed the negative results of his AIDS test, to fight the stigma, he said. Uganda’s President Yoweri Museveni took his time before joining the fight against the epidemic. As late as 2004, during an international AIDS conference in Thailand, he downplayed the effectiveness of condoms, alleging, among other things, that they ran counter to some African sexual practices. "We don’t think we can become universally condomised," he said. His remarks were met with laughter. Some action taken by African heads of state to fight the scourge did not go down well at home. A tax introduced in 1999 by Zimbabwe's President Robert Mugabe (1987-20017) to help orphans and sufferers met with resistance. It is still in place today. In 2004 Mugabe admitted that his own family had been affected by AIDS. He said the disease was "one of the greatest challenges facing our nation." Fear of economic repercussions affecting, for example, tourism, is one reason why African leaders have been reluctant to acknowledge the threat. But President Kenneth Kaunda of Zambia (1964-1991) announced as early as 1987 that one of his sons had died of AIDS. In 2002 he was the first African leader to take an AIDS test. He still fights against AIDS today. The fight against AIDS by Kaunda’s successor Edgar Lungu met with some hitches when he tried to make AIDS-testing compulsory in Zambia. Lungu said in 2016 that the policy was non-negotiable. But a huge outcry in Zambia and abroad forced him to backpedal especially as the World Health Organization made clear that compulsion encourages the stigmatization of HIV-positive people. After leaving office, Festus Mogae, former president of Botswana (1998-2008), launched Champions for an AIDS-Free Generation, which brings together a number of former African presidents and other influential personalities eager to help fight the scourge. They hope that their experience and influence will enable them to exert pressure on governments and partners to invest in AIDS prevention. Author: Cristina Krippahl Where to from here? Scientists at IciStem — a consortium of European scientists studying stem cell transplants to treat HIV infection — are currently tracking 39 HIV-infected patients who have received bone-marrow transplants. One is a patient from Düsseldorf, in western Germany, who has been HIV-free for almost 4 months. Ravindra Gupta of the University of Cambridge and the lead author of the Nature study, told the AFP news agency that if the goal is to get people off antiretroviral drugs and into remission, "then targeting CCR5 therapeutically is an option that we need to explore further." Several research studies are underway to develop gene therapy treatments. For example, scientists are working to mutate the CCR5 receptors that HIV uses to enter cells in the hope of creating an immune system the virus can't infect. Clinical trials are also underway in the US to test the possibility of modifying blood stem cells from an HIV-infected person to make them resistant to the virus, before re-introducing them to the patient. Every day, DW's editors send out a selection of the day's hard news and quality feature journalism. Sign up for the newsletter here.