German Environment Minister Svenja Schulze on Wednesday convened Germany's "climate cabinet," a special panel of ministers tasked with overseeing sectors accused of undercutting German and EU greenhouse gas reduction obligations, as the country appears set to fall short of the climate protection goals it previously set for itself. A draft climate law formulated in Schulz's ministry aimed to slash Germany's gas emissions by 55 percent by 2030 and calls on each minister to deliver reductions in addition to the across-the-board promises made by nations at past UN and EU conferences to keep global atmospheric temperature rises "well below" two degrees Celsius by the end of the century. Read more: Germany from leader to loser on climate? Schulz said all German ministries needed to take responsibility for protecting the climate. Ministers who failed to meet reduction goals would — under the terms of the new draft bill — face budgetary penalties, the imposition of climate protection measures, and the risk that from 2030 Germany would have to buy emission rights from other nations if it failed to meet its obligatory goals. The Berlin-based think tank Agora recently calculated that that scenario — related to buildings, transport and agriculture — could cost Germany at least €30 billion ($34 billion). It was "more sensible" to invest in energy-saving methods instead of paying fines, it said. Ministers each responsible Last June, Schulz, a member of the center-left Social Democrats (SPD), told the online magazine klimareporter she drew the line at fellow ministers refusing to take further steps to meet the country's climate protection goals while she, as environment minister, was left alone to implement a "wish list." At loggerheads: Schulz and Scheuer Instead, she said ministers would have to implement climate protection measures in their portfolios. "The colleague Scheuer is himself responsible," said Schulz, referring to Andreas Scheuer, Transport Minister from Bavaria's Christian Social Union (CSU), who is also responsible for Germany's big export-earning car-making sector. The Handelsblatt newspaper on Wednesday reported that the HDE retailers' federation had followed Volkswagen by urging Scheuer to provide incentives to establish 100,000 electric-vehicle recharging sites across Germany by 2020. Germany looks set to miss its 2020 goal of reducing greenhouse gases by 40 percent compared to 1990 levels. Only 32 percent cut would be reached, said a government report last November. Brussels climate summit EU leaders converge Thursday on Brussels for a two-day summit, which in addition to dealing with a requested extension of the March 29 Brexit deadline, is set to look at the European Commission's plan for a climate-neutral economy by 2050 and facing an open letter appeal by business, trade unions, regional and civic groups. Referring to last Friday's worldwide youth climate campaign, the letter's signatories demanded a "transition to a sustainable society and economy as soon as possible." Send  Facebook   Twitter   google+   Whatsapp   Tumblr   linkedin   stumble   Digg   reddit   Newsvine Permalink https://p.dw.com/p/3Ecyb "A net-zero emissions economy is feasible and provides numerous economic, environmental and social co-benefits," the open letter's signatories said. Last week, 12,000 scientists and scholars in Germany, Austria and Switzerland endorsed the "Fridays for Future" youth protest and said none of the three German-speaking countries of Germany, Austria and Switzerland was on target. "Neither necessary scale nor speed is being achieved in the restructuring of the energy, food agriculture, resource, and mobility sectors," wrote the scientists. Alpine situation becoming 'extreme' Germany's DSV skiing federation says Europe's winter months have begun almost impossible to plan a year in advance, with six events on the 2018/19 winter calendar canceled and five postponed. German alpine chief Wolfgang Meier said the situation had become "extreme," echoing veteran skier Christian Neureuther who last year described the trend as "really alarming," compared to snow conditions during his World Cup experiences in the 1970s. "Since the end of January, we could not actually run hardly any event under stable conditions — storms, rainfalls, snow, temperature swings — that is a change and exceptional, " Maier told Germany's news agency dpa. Temperatures in mid-March on mountain peaks were already well above freezing, said Maier, "between 5 to 15 degrees Celsius." The protesters' symbol was a clock to signal to those meeting at the United Nations climate change conference (COP24) that time is running out if the world is to limit global warming to within 2 degrees Celsius (3.6 degrees Fahrenheit). Negotiations at the COP have been tough, with disagreements on financing for developing countries and on how states should report their emissions cuts. Some marchers made giant puppets, including of Brazil's president elect, Jair Messias Bolsonaro, to protest the leader's climate policies. Bolsonaro has threatened to follow US President Donald Trump and withdraw his country from the Paris climate agreement. Bolsonaro has also talked about loosening protections for the Amazon rainforest — the Earth's green lungs. About seven million people worldwide die prematurely due to air pollution every year. Poland's air quality is particularly bad because of the country's dependence on coal for electricity and heating. Some protesters decorated pollution masks to make a statement about Poland's coal policy. During the COP, the country's president said there was no intention to phase out coal. Some groups, like the International Atomic Energy Agency, are promoting nuclear energy as an alternative to fossil fuels. It would provide a stable and greenhouse gas-emission-free energy source, says the IAEA. A number of protesters turned up to advocate against nuclear, because there is no good way to deal with the radioactive waste it produces and because it is potentially unsafe, they say. Sustaina Claus arrived at the climate march with his Christmas elves to preach the message of sustainability. The environmental activist says we need to stop overconsumption if we are to stop climate change and protect the planet's resources. Instead of buying mountains of gifts for your loved ones at Christmas, "you should give the gift of you." NGOs said a number of environmental campaigners were refused entry at the Polish border or deported from the country, having been deemed a "threat" to national security. Climate Action Network, an umbrella group of climate groups, called the actions worrying. A spokeswoman for Poland's border guards said she could not say whether the refusals were connected to the COP, according to Reuters. Climate activist Lander Wantens cycled over 1,000 kilometers from Belgium to Katowice for the protest and to deliver a message to delegates to do more to combat climate change. He hopes that if the negotiators see "four guys from Belgium are crazy enough to bike to the climate summit in Poland in winter, maybe that's a signal that they have to work on an ambitious climate agreement." Author: Jennifer Collins, Louise Osborne ipj/sms (dpa, Reuters, AP, AFP)