Four Palestinians died and hundreds more were injured during large-scale protests at the Gaza border on Saturday, the territory's health ministry said. Three 17-year-old boys and a 21-year-old man were killed at protests that stretched across five locations, it said. Israel has not commented on the deaths. Palestinian officials and eyewitnesses reported Israelis using live rounds. Some of the injured also suffered shrapnel wounds, rubber bullet hits or injuries from fired tear gas canisters. The Israeli army said groups of protesters attempted to approach the Gaza fence, throwing rocks and setting tires on fire, as well lobbing grenades and explosive devices. "IDF troops are responding with riot dispersal means and are firing in accordance with standard operating procedures," it said. Mosques in Gaza City used their loudspeakers to urge people to attend, with buses shuttling demonstrators to the site, despite rainy weather. Tens of thousands of people heeded the call, but the vast majority avoided the border area. Year of protests The demonstrations cap a year of regular protests calling for the right of Palestinian refugees to return to the homes they were forced to leave in the 1948 war that accompanied the creation of Israel. More than 200 Palestinians have been killed by the Israeli army since the protests began. At least 62 were shot dead in a single day in May last year in clashes that were fueled by US' decision to transfer of its embassy to the disputed city of Jerusalem. Two Israeli soldiers have also been killed. Egyptian negotiators are currently trying to broker a cease-fire deal between Israel and Hamas. Hamas said Saturday that it had received "positive signs" from the Egyptians on a potential deal, which the militant group said includes Israeli economic incentives in exchange for calm along the border. Read more: Gaza Strip: Hamas facing growing pushback Send  Facebook   Twitter   google+   Whatsapp   Tumblr   linkedin   stumble   Digg   reddit   Newsvine Permalink https://p.dw.com/p/3Ferb Embattled premier The protests could increase pressure on right-wing Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu to show that he is in control in the confrontations with Hamas ahead of upcoming elections, where he is facing a strong challenge from former army chief Benny Gantz. This week, the Israeli military struck dozens of Hamas targets in Gaza in response to a rocket fired by militants in the territory. Some 2 million Palestinians in Gaza live in conditions described by the United Nations last September as causing "profound suffering and aid dependency." Israel has maintained a blockade on the enclave for more than a decade, greatly reducing the territory's productive capacity. Israel says the blockade is necessary to contain Hamas. It also rejects the right of Palestinian refugees to return to their former homes, saying Israel could not cope with the mass influx. Read more: Gaza's youth stare into the abyss United Nations Security Council Resolution 242, passed on November 22, 1967, called for the exchange of land for peace. Since then, many of the attempts to establish peace in the region have referred to 242. The resolution was written in accordance with Chapter VI of the UN Charter, under which resolutions are recommendations, not orders. A coalition of Arab states, led by Egypt and Syria, fought Israel in the Yom Kippur or October War in October 1973. The conflict eventually led to the secret peace talks that yielded two agreements after 12 days. This picture from March 26, 1979, shows Egyptian President Anwar Sadat, his US counterpart Jimmy Carter and Israeli Prime Minister Menachem Begin after signing the accords in Washington. The US and the former Soviet Union came together to organize a conference in the Spanish capital city of Madrid. The discussions involved Israel, Jordan, Lebanon, Syria, and Palestinians — not from the Palestinian Liberation Organization (PLO) — who met with Israeli negotiators for the first time. While the conference achieved little, it did create the framework for later, more productive talks. The negotiations in Norway between Israel and the PLO, the first direct meeting between the two parties, resulted in the the Oslo I Accord. The agreement was signed in the US in September 1993. It demanded that Israeli troops withdraw from West Bank and Gaza and a self-governing, interim Palestinian authority be set up for a five-year transitional period. A second accord was signed in 1995. US President Bill Clinton invited Israeli Prime Minister Ehud Barak and PLO Chairman Yasser Arafat to the retreat in July 2000 to discuss borders, security, settlements, refugees and Jerusalem. Despite the negotiations being more detailed than ever before, no agreement was concluded. The failure to reach a consensus at Camp David was followed by renewed Palestinian uprising, the Second Intifada. The Camp David negotiations were followed first by meetings in Washington and then in Cairo and Taba, Egypt — all without results. Later the Arab League proposed the Arab Peace Initiative in Beirut in March 2002. The plan called on Israel to withdraw to pre-1967 borders so that a Palestinian state could be set up in the West Bank and Gaza. In return, Arab countries would agree to recognize Israel. The US, EU, Russia and the UN worked together as the Middle East Quartet to develop a road map to peace. While Palestinian Prime Minister Mahmoud Abbas accepted the text, his Israeli counterpart Ariel Sharon had more reservations with the wording. The timetable called for a final agreement on a two-state solution to be reached in 2005. Unfortunately, it was never implemented. In 2007 US President George W. Bush hosted a conference in Annapolis, Maryland, to relaunch the peace process. Israeli Prime Minister Ehud Olmert and Palestinian Authority President Mahmoud Abbas took part in talks with officials from the Quartet and over a dozen Arab states. It was agreed that further negotiations would be held with the goal of reaching a peace deal by the end of 2008. In 2010, US Middle East Envoy George Mitchell convinced Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu to agree to and implement a ten-month moratorium on settlements in disputed territories. Later, Netanyahu and Abbas agreed to relaunch direct negotiations to resolve all issues. Negotiations began in Washington in September 2010, but within weeks there was a deadlock. A new round of violence broke out in and around Gaza late 2012. A ceasefire was reached between Israel and those in power in the Gaza Strip, which held until June 2014. The kidnapping and murder of three Israeli teenagers in June 2014 resulted in renewed violence and eventually led to the Israeli military operation Protective Edge. It ended with a ceasefire on August 26, 2014. Envoys from over 70 countries gathered in Paris, France, to discuss the conflict between Israelis and Palestinians. Netanyahu slammed the discussions as "rigged" against his country. Neither Israeli nor Palestinian representatives attended the summit. "A two-state solution is the only possible one," French Foreign Minister Jean-Marc Ayrault said at the opening of the event. Despite the year's optimistic opening, 2017 brought further stagnation in the Israeli-Palestinian peace process. A deadly summer attack on Israeli police at the Temple Mount, a site holy to both Jews and Muslims, sparked deadly clashes. Then US President Donald Trump's plan to move the embassy to Jerusalem prompted Palestinian leader Abbas to say "the measures ... undermine all peace efforts." Author: Aasim Saleem aw, tj/amp (AFP, AP) Each evening at 1830 UTC, DW's editors send out a selection of the day's hard news and quality feature journalism. You can sign up to receive it directly here.