Hooded demonstrators in Paris fought with police and set several stores alight on Saturday, as yellow vest organizers sought to breathe new life into a movement that has rocked the administration of French President Emmanuel Macron.  Police said 42 protesters, 17 of their own officers and one firefighter were injured during a day of violence that followed weeks of relative calm. Nearly 240 protesters were arrested, out of an estimated 10,000 participants. On the Champs Elysees, rioters set fire to a bank, an upmarket handbag store and two newsstands. The high-end Fouquet's restaurant was also damaged. Send  Facebook   Twitter   google+   Whatsapp   Tumblr   linkedin   stumble   Digg   reddit   Newsvine Permalink https://p.dw.com/p/3FBxm Stores wrecked, neighborhood torched Protesters also looted stores and burned bonfires at several points on the famed shopping street, where a large security cordon had been set up to protect the Arc de Triomphe war memorial. Demonstrators attacked a police van before officers wearing riot gear moved in to push them away. Police fired tear gas and aimed a water cannon on the protesters, who had set barricades alight from a side street. The avenue, known for its theaters, cafes and luxury shops, was the site of violent protests in previous yellow vest demonstrations. Prime Minister Edouard Philippe has denounced Saturday's violence and vowed to bring the perpetrators to justice. "We are dealing with several hundred, several thousand in some cases, highly determined people who are there to create disorder," he said. Read more: 'Yellow vest' movement: How artists see it The aims of the protesters, who include members of both the far right and far left, are varied. However, chief among their concerns are high taxes and declining incomes. Critics of the government claim Macron favors the rich and alienates those who are struggling. Macron's popularity rating has fallen sharply since his election in 2017, although it has improved in recent weeks — to some 28 percent. The movement takes its name from the high visibility vests French drivers have to keep in their cars. It was initially a protest against President Emmanuel Macron's fuel tax, but eventually swelled to a tide of more general resentment against his government. Although numbers have dwindled, they were higher again on Saturday than the previous week. Protesters gathered close to a well-guarded Arc de Triomphe, with organizers keen to discourage violence. French Interior Minister Christophe Castaner condemned the trouble that did arise as the work of "professional trouble-makers." In recent weeks, the protests have been relatively calm, but things turned ugly again this time around. Some yellow vests threw smoke bombs and cobblestones at officers, who replied by deploying clouds of tear gas. Businesses were attacked along the Champs-Elysees, home of numerous luxury brand stores and high-end eateries. Police made arrests as demonstrators looted shops and ransacked the exclusive Fouquet’s restaurant. More modest commercial premises also suffered, including this newsstand which was set alight. Protesters erected and set alight barricades on the Champs-Elysees on the 18th consecutive weekend of protest. Saturday's scenes were reminiscent of some of the worst yellow vest rallies in December, when stores were also looted and vandalized in images that shocked many observers. Demonstrators accuse Macron, a former investment banker and finance minister, of looking after the interests of the wealthy while neglecting ordinary French workers. Critics have also hit out at the president’s style of government, accusing him of being too aloof and affecting a regal air — a perception that has earned him the nickname "Sun King." Author: Richard Connor Macron speaks with voters The demonstrations come at the end of a two-month national debate that Macron organized in response to protests that began in November. Read more: France's 'great debate' is over — so what comes next? Up to half a million people took part in meetings held across the country to discuss topics including tax, services, unemployment and the environment. The yellow vest protests appeared to diminish in recent weeks, with some 28,600 protesters counted nationally at last week's demonstrations, and 3,000 in Paris — a far cry from previous figures. When the protests began, some 300,000 people were involved in a day of action to block roads. The protests started in response to a fuel tax increase, as part of Macron's push for a cleaner energy policy. Macron subsequently dropped the policy and promised more than €10 billion ($11 billion) to boost the incomes of pensioners and France's poorest workers. mm, rc/cmk (AFP, Reuters, AP) Each evening at 1830 UTC, DW's editors send out a selection of the day's hard news and quality feature journalism. You can sign up to receive it directly here.