The suspect in a deadly tram shooting in Utrecht has confessed and said he acted alone, Dutch prosecutors said Friday. Turkish-born Gokmen Tanis, 37, stands accused of shooting dead three people and seriously wounding three others in the March 18 attack. He faces charges of murder with terrorist intent. A judge on Friday ordered his continued detention for the maximum limit of two more weeks. He will then appear before a court and the detention can be extended to 90 days. March for the victims Prosecutors have yet to confirm the motive for the attack. However, authorities have said that the investigation has yet to turn up any connection between Tanis and his victims, casting doubt on a statement from some of his relatives to the Turkish media in the hours after that the shooting was a "family" or relationship issue. Investigators are now looking into whether the violence "flowed from personal problems combined with a radicalized ideology." Prosecutors have asked for the suspect to undergo a psychiatric evaluation. The suspect is known to have a criminal record. A second suspect, a 40-year-old man who was taken into custody because Tanis was found at his home, was released on Friday after police ruled out his being an accomplice to the crime or obstructing justice. Later on Friday, Dutch Prime Minister Mark Rutte, the mayors of the four largest Dutch cities and hundreds of residents are expected to take part in a silent march honoring the victims.  The shooting in Utrecht took place on a tram at around 10.45 a.m. (0945 UTC) in a residential neighborhood. Three people were killed in the attack. Counterterrorism forces were quickly deployed to the scene at Utrecht's 24 Oktoberplein junction. Police are treating the incident as a possible case of terrorism. The police said on Twitter that "multiple people have been injured." Ambulances arrived rapidly to transport them to hospital. Later, authorities said five people had been wounded. The gunman escaped the scene of the crime and police have been trying to find him. Schools were told to keep their doors closed while the search was going on. Dutch police even deployed mounted forces as they tried to ensure public safety following the attack. The public has been warned to stay indoors. Utrecht police published a photo of the suspected attacker caught by surveillance video. The named the man as Gökmen Tanis, a 37-year-old born in Turkey. They asked the public not to approach him and to call the authorities if they see him. Speaking at a press conference, Dutch Prime Minister Mark Rutte said "our democracy is stronger than fantacism and violence. We will never give in to intolerence." cw,es/msh (AFP, AP, dpa) 