Malaysia's transport minister on Sunday said the government was open to proposals to resume the search for missing Malaysian Airlines Flight MH370, as family and friends of the passengers marked the fifth anniversary of the Boeing 777's disappearance. There were 239 people on board MH370 when it vanished en route from Kuala Lumpur to Beijing on March 8, 2014. Its unexplained disappearance became one of the world's greatest aviation mysteries. Malaysian Minister of Transport Anthony Loke planted a commemorative tree with the family members of passengers at an event to mark the fifth anniversary of the plane's disappearance, during which he said the government was willing to explore further search options. "If there are any credible leads or specific proposals ... we are more than willing to look at them," Loke said. Oliver Plunkett, the CEO of Ocean Infinity — a US exploration firm that has already carried out one search for MH370 — said in a video at a public remembrance event in Kuala Lumpur that the company hopes to continue the search with better technology obtained in the past year. "If [Ocean Infinity] can convince us that the new technology can be more efficient in terms of the search, then we are more than willing to restart," Loke said. Extensive searches have so far failed to find the plane. Of the 30 pieces of suspected aircraft debris that have been collected along the Indian Ocean coastline, only three wing fragments have been confirmed to be from MH370. On March 8, Malaysia Airlines Flight MH370 bound for Beijing takes off from Kuala Lumpur International Airport at 12:41 a.m., with 239 people on board. However, 26 minutes after departure, the Aircraft Communications Addressing and Reporting System (ACARS), which transmits key information on the plane's mechanical condition, is switched off. As the Boeing 777 passes from Malaysian to Vietnamese air traffic control a few minutes later, someone in the plane's cockpit says "Good night Malaysian three seven zero." The airline believes it is co-pilot Fariq Abdul Hamid speaking. The aircraft is flying in good weather conditions. The plane drops off civilian air traffic control screens as its transponder, which relays information on the plane's location and altitude, is shut down at around 1:31 a.m. As military radar plot the passenger jet at 2:15 a.m., it is located at a point south of the island of Phuket in the Strait of Malacca, hundreds of miles off course. The aircraft's last communication with satellites seven hours later place it somewhere in one of two corridors: a northern corridor stretching from northern Thailand to the border of Kazakhstan and Turkmenistan, or a southern one stretching from Indonesia to the southern Indian Ocean. The last signal is received at 8:11 a.m., suggesting that the plane may have flown on for hours. Shortly after the disappearance, Malaysia and Vietnam mount a joint search and rescue mission. The search area is quickly expanded to 100 nautical miles to cover part of the Gulf of Thailand between Malaysia and Vietnam. It also emerges that two passengers had been using stolen EU passports, fueling fears of a terrorist attack. Police later find that the men were illegal Iranian immigrants. By March 12, the search area for the aircraft encompasses both sides of peninsular Malaysia, over an area of nearly 27,000 square nautical miles (more than 90,000 square kilometers), with a total of 12 countries participating in the operation. A Chinese satellite discovers three large objects floating in the South China Sea that could be debris belonging to the missing airliner. Two days later, Malaysian PM Najib Razak (seen here right) confirms the plane turned back from its planned flight path and adds the movements "are consistent with deliberate action by someone on the plane." Authorities launch a criminal investigation, refocusing on the crew and the identity and background of the passengers on board. The homes of both the captain and the co-pilot are searched. Eleven days after the incident, the number of countries involved in the search for the plane increases from 14 to 26, with investigators focusing on the two large corridors the plane may have flown. The search area now covers 2.24 million square nautical miles. French investigators join in to lend expertise from the Air France jet that crashed in the Atlantic Ocean in 2009. Officials reveal a new timeline suggesting the plane's final voice transmission may have occurred before the communications systems were disabled. Authorities are looking into hijacking, sabotage, or pilot suicide as potential reasons for the disappearance, but background checks of people aboard have yet to point to anyone with a known political or criminal motive to crash or hijack the plane. Conflicting theories emerge seeking to explain the incident. But without any identified wreckage, it is hard to establish facts. This prolongs the painful wait for the relatives and friends of those who have gone missing. There were people from 14 different countries on board, with the majority of passengers hailing from China (153) and Malaysia (38). On March 24, Malaysian PM Najib Razak announces that new satellite data suggests Flight MH370 crashed in the southern Indian Ocean with all 239 people aboard presumed dead. The statement unleashes a storm of sorrow and anger among the relatives of the missing. Angry family members - who have complained about a lack of reliable information - demonstrate in front of the Malaysian Embassy in Beijing. But anticipation repeatedly turns into frustration as objects spotted from planes turn out to be garbage. It's a time-wasting distraction for air and sea crews searching for debris. Sometimes the object traced in the water is a snarled fishing line, a buoy or something that might once have been the lid to an ice box. On April 3, nearly a month after the flight's disappearance, authorities remain baffled as to how and why it happened. Malaysian Police Chief Khalid Abu Bakar warns that unless the black box is found, the mystery may never be solved. Premier Najib Razak (R) says the search won't stop until answers are found, as his Australian counterpart Tony Abbott calls it "the most difficult in human history." On April 5, a Chinese vessel reports hearing a "pulse signal" in the Indian Ocean. Two days later, an Australian ship detects two distinct, long-lasting sounds consistent with the pings from aircraft black boxes. The international team subsequently scours roughly 850 square kilometers (330 square miles) of the southern Indian Ocean for weeks, but fails to find any evidence of a wreckage. In October, Australia shifts the search area further south to where the UK-based satellite company Immarsat calculated the plane probably went down based on brief hourly connections the plane made to one of its satellites. The area, west of Perth, Australia, along a narrow arc in the southern Indian Ocean is identified as the most likely resting place of the jet. But for months nothing is found. In late January 2015, Malaysia's Department of Civil Aviation officially declared the flight was an accident, and that all people on board were presumed dead. The announcement was in line with global aviation rules that allow families of the passengers to seek compensation. Malaysian officials said they had not ruled out foul play and that the recovery of the missing plane remained a priority. However, some families of the passengers aboard Flight MH370 refuse to accept Malaysia's conclusion that the plane's disappearance was an accident. Shortly after, Sarah Bajc, whose partner Philip Wood was on the aircraft, tells DW this is a "convenient excuse," arguing that no evidence has been found to support the authorities' claim. In its efforts to improve global flight safety following the disappearance of MH370, the International Civil Aviation Organization recently proposed a new measure that will require commercial aircraft to report their position every 15 minutes. The guideline is the first stage of a proposal called the Global Aeronautical Distress and Safety System that aims to ensure planes can be tracked quickly. Chinese families of passengers aboard the flight continue to protest the handling of the search efforts by the Malaysian authorities. They hold prayers and demonstrations on the occasion of the Chinese New Year. The search teams looking for the missing airliner have so far met many challenges. Some of them are associated with the search area. The remoteness and the size of the area mean that every aspect of the operation must be planned and undertaken meticulously. The search for MH370 is already the most expensive of its kind ever undertaken. Author: Gabriel Domínguez Last contact Fight MH370 was last heard from in the early hours of the morning on March 8, 2014. At 1:19 a.m. (1719 UTC), Malaysian air traffic control instructed MH370's captain, 53-year-old Ahmad Zaharie Shah — a seasoned pilot with 33-years of experience — to contact Vietnamese air traffic control as the aircraft approached the edges of Malaysian airspace. "Malaysian Three-Seven-Zero, contact Ho Chi Minh 120 decimal 9. Good night," air control said. Five seconds later, the pilot responded with the last words to be heard from MH370: "Good night, Malaysian Three-Seven-Zero." Minutes later, the plane's transponder was shut down, making it impossible to accurately track the aircraft's location on radar screens. Vietnamese air traffic controllers frantically tried to contact the cabin crew after the plane failed to report as scheduled, but they were met with radio silence. That was the last anyone heard from the crew or passengers on MH370. Send  Facebook   Twitter   google+   Whatsapp   Tumblr   linkedin   stumble   Digg   reddit   Newsvine Permalink https://p.dw.com/p/2yX2g The search The plane's disappearance sparked a $145 million (€127.5 million) search spanning 120,000 square kilometers (46,332 square miles) and involving multiple countries, including China, Australia and Malaysia, over initial suspicions the plane might have crashed somewhere in the South China Sea. The search was called off after two years in January 2017, after no traces of the plane had been found. Last year, Malaysia accepted a search offer from US seabed exploration firm Ocean Infinity, which deployed autonomous unmanned vehicles to trawl the depths of the sea floor in return for a multimillion-dollar fee if plane debris were found. The effort ended in May 2018. law/jlw (dpa, Reuters) Each evening at 1830 UTC, DW's editors send out a selection of the day's hard news and quality feature journalism. You can sign up to receive it directly here.