+++ Refresh page for updates, all times in CET +++ Live score: Germany 0-1 Serbia (Jovic 12') 29' After a promising dribble from Sané, Werner's low cross is easily cleared, but at least there was a little bit more tempo in that Germany attack. 25' Serbia come forward on the break with Rukavina and Jovic receives the ball in the box but Süle slides in at the last minute to block the shot! Almost 2-0 to the visitors! 22' Gündogan presses his opponent in midfield and the ball falls to Havertz who immediately feeds Werner, but the RB striker is put under pressure by his marker and his weak shot is easily stopped by the goalkeeper's foot. Good pressing by Gündogan. 15' One corner, one chance, one goal - an efficient start from the Serbs! They've sat back again since the goal - can this young Germany team find a way to break them down? 12' GOAL! Germany 0-1 Serbia (Jovic) And Germany have paid the price for not converting that good start into a goal. Serbia win a corner following their first foray forwrads, the ball is flicked on somewhat fortunately at the front post and Niklas Süle, already pushing out, leaves Luka Jovic unmarked on the edge of the six-yard-box. The Eintracht Frankfurt man, of course, makes no mistake, and Serbia lead! 9' A good move involving Sané on the left wing sees the Man City man find Werner in the center but the RB Leipzig striker can't take his chance. 7' A positive start from Germany with lots of possession and slick forward passing. 3' Gündogan sends a pin-point ball out to Halstenberg, advanced on the left wing. His cross is stabbed goalwards by Havertz but the Serbian goalkeeper is well placed to save. 1' Kick-off!  Germany get proceedings underway in Wolfsburg, kicking from left to right in their traditional white strips. Serbia are in all red. Jogi speaks! "We can't expect miracles from what is essentially a new team," says Joachim Löw pitch-side, also confirming that Marc-André ter Stegen will replace Manuel Neuer in goal in the second half. Club or country? After a four-month break, international football is finally back! But not everyone is too thrilled. When the national team arrived in Wolfsburg, representatives from the German football association (DFB) were met with dozens of less-than-complimentary banners hung across the city as local fans continued the wave of protests in German football. - Full story: Wolfsburg fans protest against German national team and DFB Long time, no see This is the first time these two nations have met since the 2010 World Cup in South Africa, when Lukas Podolski missed a penalty and Miroslav Klose was sent off for Germany, as Serbia won 1-0. Let's hope for a better result tonight, eh? Serbia team news Mijat Gacinovic and Luka Jovic - both of Eintracht Frankfurt - start in attack for Serbia. With 22 goals in all competitions this season for the Eagles, 21-year-old Jovic will pose a serious threat to Germany's young defense this evening. The back four tasked with stopping him? Marcel Halstenberg, Jonathan Tah, Niklas Süle and the aforementioned Klostermann, with Joshua Kimmich and Ilkay Gündogan sat in front. Germany team news RB Leipzig's Lukas Klostermann makes his debut at full-back while Kai Havertz, Julian Brandt and Leroy Sané line up behind Timo Werner in attack in what looks like a 4-2-3-1 formation. Is this the new Germany? We shall see. Guten Abend! Welcome to DW's live coverage of Germany's international friendly against Serbia After Joachim Löw announced the shock exlcusions of Thomas Müller, Jerome Boateng and Mats Hummels from the national team, it's time for a new generation of German talent to take center stage. Kick-off in Wolfsburg is at 20:45 CET and we should have team news about one hour before that.