For more than seven decades, the political culture of the Federal Republic of Germany has been characterized by remarkable consensus and compromise. Despite the best efforts of some of the far-right populists in the Alternative for Germany (AfD) party, there's no German equivalent to the acrimony generated by President Donald Trump in the United States. In the main, German politicians stay civil. But every Ash Wednesday the gloves come off, and political leaders are allowed to push the rhetoric to the limits of fairness — and sometimes beyond. That's the case this year, too, in the centenary edition of the ritual. Here are some best zingers from the history of the political roast day Germans call "political Ash Wednesday." So where did the tradition of leaders from all of Germany's major pulpits taking to rostrums, often in beer tents, to excoriate opponents and sometimes even allies come from? To answer that, we have to go to the extreme southeastern corner of Germany. Bavarian conservative Franz-Josef Strauss is considered the father of this modern-day ritual A Bavarian tradition of plain talk Ash Wednesday has become part of mainstream German political culture, but it comes from the provinces of Bavaria. Nor is this tradition especially old, celebrating only its 100th anniversary this year. The first political Ash Wednesday took place on March 5, 1919, when the Bavarian Farmers' Association staged an event in the town of Vilshofen near the Austrian border. There, in the wake of Germany's defeat in the First World War, the speakers pulled no punches about the shortcomings of the country's previous political leadership. Expressions of political criticism were most definitely not welcome in Nazi Germany, so it wasn't until after the Second World War that political Ash Wednesday attained its current status. That was largely down to a Bavarian political grandee, Franz-Josef Strauss of the CSU, who held several cabinet posts from 1953 to 1969 and led Bavaria from 1978 to 1988. Strauss was a larger-than-life politician — a straight-talking patriarch for his supporters and an autocratic bully for his detractors. In any case, the pugnacious Bavarian became known for his Ash Wednesday broadsides. He once said of Social Democratic leader Johannes Rau, "The chancellor's shirt is three sizes too big for him," and of the SPD-led government in the 1970s, "They set out to reform Germany and turned it into a pig sty." "The CSU head and state premier of Bavaria put his stamp on the biting speeches of political Ash Wednesday like no one else," wrote the Süddeutsche Zeitung newspaper in 2007, some twenty years after Strauss' death. Beer and political insults are not just for conservatives any more The other parties get on board Inspired by the attention Strauss and the CSU received with such jibes, Germany's other political parties followed suit. Today, leaders from the entire political spectrum, from the AfD to the Left party, seize the opportunity to hold provocative speeches in front of the party faithful. One of those taking part this year in the springtime ritual, which coincides with the Christian period of Lent, is FDP General Secretary Nicola Beer. She's a fan of Ash Wednesday speechifying. "If political Ash Wednesday didn't exist, someone would have to invent it," Beer told Deutsche Welle. "It's a great chance to engage in some verbal sparring, rally the troops and stake out a political standpoint, before the fasting period begins." The FDP's Nicola Beer is one of many female politicians who enjoy a good verbal joust A form of carnivalesque populism? Ash Wednesday political speeches are broadcast live on nationwide television, but the traditional retains something of its local origins. The speeches follow hot on the heels of the Carnival parades in many Catholic parts of Germany, with their often politically pointed floats, and the barbs of the politicians aim to replicate the no-nonsense remarks that can be heard in taverns and bars throughout Germany. As always, the audiences at the Ash Wednesday speeches on March 6, 2019, are taking the opportunity to down odd tankard of beer while their political leaders lay into their adversaries. There's an atmosphere of frivolity in the speeches. Politicians are granted fool's license to exceed the bounds of polite political discourse and aim the odd blow below the belt. Political Ash Wednesday is more about comedy and show than policy and serious proposals. At the same time, there are also points of genuine friction. The newly elected leader of the conservative CDU party, Annegret Kramp-Karrenbauer, found that out when she got in hot water for making a joke about special bathrooms for transgender 
people  at a Carnival event late last week. Gay and lesbian groups from within her own party demanded an apology. She's holding a speech later on Wednesday evening. Times change and many of the remarks greeted in Strauss' day with laughter would be deemed unacceptable today — even within the context of Ash Wednesday's greater verbal license. Once a provenance almost exclusively of men, the main speakers at four of the seven main Ash Wednesday events in 2019 are women: Annalena Baerbock of the Greens and Katharina Barley of the SPD along with Beer and Kramp-Karrenbauer. That may have slightly altered the tone, if not the general thrust of thi, particularly German ritual. "We women fight our duels with foils," Beer told DW. "We women enjoy confrontations and scoring hits, cheekily and directly. We women have been part of political Ash Wednesday for some time now. But no matter how female Ash Wednesday is, it remains a relevant forum for straight talk." Cologne's traditional Rose Monday parade features different satirical floats that include political commentary. This one refers to Banksy's artwork that self-destroyed during a 2018 Sotheby's auction, now known as "Love is in the Bin." Portrayed is Angela Merkel. Following disastrous regional elections, she announced in October 2018 that her fourth term as Germany's chancellor would be her last. The race to replace Angela Merkel was the center of a lot of attention following her announcement, so it's no wonder it became the focus of a Carnival float. Seen here is Annegret Kramp-Karrenbauer, of Merkel's CDU party, popping a bottle of "Merkel Brut" bubbly atop the winner's podium, with her competitors Jens Spahn (l) and Friedrich Merz (r) looking unhappy at her side. The characters replacing Kate Winslet and Leonardo DiCaprio in their iconic "Titanic" scene are Andrea Nahles, leader of the Social Democratic Party (SPD), and her party's Olaf Scholz, Federal Minister of Finance and Vice Chancellor under Chancellor Angela Merkel in the Grand Coalition (known as the Groko). In regional elections in 2018, the SPD sunk to a historic low. Well-known for his affinity for golf and taking a club to the standing order, the US President is the butt of this float's joke. Seen here with his trousers sliding off to reveal a bottom tattooed with a heart and "me" ("I love me"), Trump is taking aim at organizations like the WTO and NATO. Brexit has been at the center of many floats over the last two years. As the date for Great Britain to leave the EU nears, this wagon motif shows a man punching himself in the face. The boxer appears to be knocking his own teeth out — teeth which are labeled "responsibilities." Taking on a topic that's been under debate — the emissions scandal and a lack of coordinated response to address the city's high levels of pollution — this float shows a politician sucking the gas out of an auto industry lobbyist. Beside them are common sources of pollution: coal and fireworks among them. Cracks were discovered in the Doel Nuclear Power Station and other Belgian reactors, and the neighboring German state of North Rhine-Westphalia ordered iodine tablets for its citizens in case of a nuclear accident. The speech bubble refers to a well-known sentence in Cologne's dialect, which translates as "It always worked fine until now," but the word "joot" (good) is replaced by "Jod" (iodine). Another float dealing with an environmental issue: The clownfish Nemo, from the popular Disney animated film series is depicted here attempting to flee from a mountain of plastic bags. Author: Elizabeth Grenier, Courtney Tenz