The district court in Bielefeld found 57-year-old Klaus O. guilty of attempted murder on Thursday after spent years poisoning his colleagues by mixing heavy metals into their lunchtime sandwiches and drinks at work. The court also found him guilty on multiple counts of bodily injury and sentenced the man to life in prison. The decision was surprising, as such long-term jail sentences for attempted murder are relatively rare in Germany. "I've only experienced such a sentence once in my career," said Ronald Weber, a lawyer for one of the victims, said ahead of the decision. Because Klaus O. is considered mentally healthy, he is fully culpable for the crimes. Klaus was also sentenced to preventative detention following his life sentence since judges believe there is a high risk he could offend again. Read more: Just how dangerous is mercury, anyway? Mysterious case One of Klaus O.'s colleagues at a metal fittings company first became suspicious after discovering a conspicuous white powder in his sandwiches. At his request, management installed a video surveillance system and caught the defendant red-handed shortly thereafter. Assuming nobody was watching him, Klaus O. took sandwiches out of his colleagues' bags and sprinkled them with powder before putting them back in. That was spring 2018. None of his colleagues at the time thought he was trying to murder them; most thought it was a bad joke. But police investigators later discovered that the defendant had chemicals such as lead acetate, cadmium, lead and mercury at a makeshift laboratory in his home. They also found traces on his computer that indicated he had been in contact with the chemicals. Coworkers demand answers Before the trial began in November 2018, a lawyer of one of the victims said: "There was a relationship of trust between colleagues like in any other company; nobody expected anything like this. Klaus O., a trained toolmaker, was considered technically experienced and helped his colleagues. Otherwise, he generally avoided them. There were no conversations about private matters over a cup of coffee, but there weren't many quarrels either." The victims wanted to know why he did it. They wanted to hear from him why, after years of ingesting poison, they became increasingly ill with kidney disease. One colleague couldn't take part in the case. His parents told the court how their previously cheerful son first complained of slight numbness and weakness and then mysteriously became increasingly ill. Today, he is in a vegetative state with severe brain damage and requires constant care. There's no prospect of his condition improving. Read more: German man suspected of killing 21 co-workers by poisoning their food Australia's government launched an official probe after sewing needles were found stuck inside strawberries across the country. Reports of the tampered berries popped up in six out of the country's seven states, with officials worried about copycat cases. At least one person was taken to the hospital after eating a strawberry with a needle inside. Consumers in Australia weren't the only ones to take cautious bites out of their food this year. In January, metal pins were found stuck in food from a grocery store in the southwestern German town of Offenburg. The pins were found in in several bakery items, including toast bread, as well as a salami snack. Parents across Germany were sent into a panic last September after authorities found baby food jars in Friedrichshafen laced with ethylene glycol — the sweet-tasting compound used in antifreeze. It can cause kidney failure and even death. A 55-year-old man threatened to poison more food in German supermarkets if he didn't receive €10 million ($12 million). He was later arrested and confessed. More than 30 people died in the Punjab province of Pakistan after eating laddu, a baked sweet, that had been purposely poisoned. The brother of the sweet shop owner later admitted to police that he'd mixed a potent pesticide into the sweets after a family argument. More than 70 people were affected by the poisoned treats. Supermarkets in Italy were on high alert for several months in 2003 over contaminated water bottles. Bleach and acetone was injected into the tops of water bottles using a syringe. Police at the time believed that the unknown suspect or suspects belonged to radical anti-capitalist or environmentalist groups. Over a dozen people became sick after drinking the tainted water. It was the case that started it all — seven people in the US city of Chicago died after taking Tylenol-branded pain relief pills that had been laced with potassium cyanide. No one was ever charged for the deaths and the case remains unsolved. The deaths prompted pharmaceutical companies to develop packaging that is tamper-resistant. Author: Rebecca Staudenmaier 'Like a scientist experimenting with guinea pigs' Clues about the motive could come from five conversations Klaus O. had with a psychologist in a correctional facility. In a court testimony, the psychologist said the defendant wanted to experiment with toxins like a scientist and observe how they affected his colleagues. Klaus "seemed to me like a scientist who was testing substances on a guinea pig," he said. But apart from these insights, every other explanation for why Klaus did it remains speculation. The defendant himself remained almost silent in court. Klaus spoke for the first time at the end of the trial — the only thing he said since it began in November: "I fully endorse the remarks of my defense attorneys." Editor's note: Deutsche Welle follows the German press code, which stresses the importance of protecting the privacy of suspected criminals or victims and obliges us to refrain from revealing full names in such cases. Every evening at 1830 UTC, DW's editors send out a selection of the day's hard news and quality feature journalism. You can sign up to receive it directly here.