The EU's budget commissioner, Günther Oettinger, proposed on Sunday giving the bloc the right to deny Chinese-funded infrastructure deals in Europe if they don't serve the EU's common interests. The call came a day after Italy signed on to China's Belt and Road Initiative (BRI), an ambitious infrastructure project that has raised concerns in many EU capitals. Read more: When in Rome, do as the Chinese do What are Oettinger's concerns? Oettinger told Germany's Funke Media group: Read more: The possible impact of China's Belt and Road agreement with Italy Send  Facebook   Twitter   google+   Whatsapp   Tumblr   linkedin   stumble   Digg   reddit   Newsvine Permalink https://p.dw.com/p/3FQ5H German foreign minister criticizes Italy Oettinger's remarks followed criticism from German Foreign Minister Heiko Maas of Italy's infrastructure deal with China. "Countries that believe they can do clever business with the Chinese will wonder when they suddenly wake up in dependency," he said in an interview with Germany's Welt Am Sonntag newspaper. Lucrative offers in the short term will soon leave a bitter aftertaste, he added. Read more: Report: EU countries to be straitjacketed by China's New Silk Road What is China's Belt and Road Initiative? It's a sweeping infrastructure program that has seen Beijing make major investments in ports, roads, airports and railroads in Asia, Africa, and parts of Europe. Why's it so controversial? Since it began in 2013, the initiative has been marred by complaints that it leaves partner countries with huge debts and, as a result, beholden to Beijing. Read more: Italy, China sign new 'Silk Road' pact Italy's deal worth billions: Rome officially joined the initiative on Saturday, becoming the first G7 nation to do so. The deal includes Beijing's €7 billion investment in the strategic Italian ports of Genoa and Trieste. Several other deals in the energy, steel and gas pipeline sectors were also inked. Italy's not alone in Europe: Poland, Greece, Portugal and Hungary have also signed bilateral deals with China. Send  Facebook   Twitter   google+   Whatsapp   Tumblr   linkedin   stumble   Digg   reddit   Newsvine Permalink https://p.dw.com/p/3FXCS mm/amp (AFP, DPA) Each evening at 1830 UTC, DW's editors send out a selection of the day's hard news and quality feature journalism. You can sign up to receive it directly here.