A court in Japan on Tuesday unexpectedly granted conditional bail to former auto industry titan Carlos Ghosn, who has been charged with falsifying financial reports and breach of trust. Under his bail terms, Ghosn is banned from leaving the country and must adhere to conditions aimed at preventing him from fleeing or destroying evidence. The bail has been set at one billion yen ($9 million/€7.9 million). "It was good we proposed concrete ways showing how he would not tamper with evidence or try to flee," Ghosn's newly hired lawyer, Junichiro Hironaka said. Junichiro Hironaka is nicknamed "the Razor" for his combative style. He is famous for winning acquittals in Japan, where the conviction rate is 99 percent. Prosecutors appealed the decision and could even file additional allegations against the 64-year-old to keep him from leaving detention.  Read more: Nissan seeks to block disgraced chairman from Rio apartment Nissan Motor chairman Carlos Ghosn was arrested in November 2018 and subsequently charged with falsifying financial reports and breach of trust. He led a remarkable turnaround at the Japanese automaker, rescuing it from bankruptcy. An investigation continues into whether he under-reported his salary by 5 billion yen (€39 million $44.5 million) over five years from 2011. Ex-Volkswagen CEO Martin Winterkorn resigned in 2015 in the midst of the Dieselgate scandal. The automaker was found to have lowered the emissions of its diesel-engine cars during environmental tests. VW set aside €27 billion to pay fines, buybacks and compensation Winterkorn has been charged in the US with fraud and conspiracy, but Germany does not allow the extradition of its nationals. In 2007, Siemens chairman Heinrich von Pierer stepped down following a corruption scandal during his time as CEO. During the investigation it emerged that Siemens had created a system of slush funds and fictitious consultancy contracts, while also paying huge bribes, totaling at least €1.3 billion euros to win foreign contracts. Pierer later agreed to pay €5 million in damages to the firm. Once-powerful movie titan, Harvey Weinstein, has been accused by dozens of women of sexual misconduct ranging from harassment to rape. He is out on bail and has pleaded not guilty in New York to six counts reportedly committed against three women. The accusations against him spurred the #MeToo movement, where women worldwide have spoken up against sexual harassment and assault. Sir Martin Sorrell, the founder of the global advertising powerhouse WPP, stepped down in April after 33 years. He denied accusations of personal misconduct and misuse of company assets. The Wall Street Journal alleged Sorrell had paid a sex worker on company expenses, which he responded were “scurrilous and salacious" claims. Uber CEO Travis Kalanick resigned from his position in July 2017 after heavy pressure from several major investors in the San Francisco-based ride-hailing company. Concerns were raised about Kalanick's management style, including allegations of sexual harassment and discrimination. Under his watch, the firm's ruthless reputation has also been criticized by regulators. Author: Nik Martin Author: Nik Martin Fall from grace Ghosn's November arrrest shocked the auto industry, and came just five months after he narrowly won a shareholder vote at the Renault-Nissan-Mitsubishi Motors over his €7.4 million annual pay package for 2017. His compensation package was criticized by French President Emmanuel Macron during his stint as economy minister. Brazilian-born Ghosn helped the carmaker back from the brink of financial ruin 17 years ago and turned it into a global powerhouse, introducing an electric model. Send  Facebook   Twitter   google+   Whatsapp   Tumblr   linkedin   stumble   Digg   reddit   Newsvine Permalink https://p.dw.com/p/3DPOI kw/rt (AFP, dpa, AP) Each evening at 1830 UTC, DW's editors send out a selection of the day's hard news and quality feature journalism. You can sign up to receive it directly here.