The US House of Representatives passed a resolution condemning anti-Semitism and other forms of hatred on Thursday, following a controversial debate over Democratic Congresswoman Ilhan Omar's remarks on Israel.  Though the resolution did not mention Omar by name, it was drafted in order to resolve the rift her remarks have caused within the Democratic Party and to quell an onslaught of criticism from Republicans, who went as far as to urge that Omar be removed from the House Foreign Affairs Committee. Read more: Ilhan Omar: From Somali refugee to Minnesota legislator Omar, who was elected in November to represent the state of Minnesota, said Israel's supporters were pushing US lawmakers to take a pledge of "allegiance" to a foreign country. The comment was viewed as signaling the historic anti-Semitic trope of dual allegiances. A Muslim-American and the first woman to wear a veil in the US Congress, Omar has been critical of Israel and has supported Palestine. Last month, she apologized for comments that her critics said suggested Jewish Americans used money to influence pro-Israel US policies. Omar has said opposing the policies of Israel and Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu is not synonymous with anti-Semitism. At just 30 years old, Jon Ossoff could soon be the youngest US congressman and pull off a major victory for the Democratic Party. The Democrat just pulled in over 48 percent of the vote in a special election on Tuesday in Georgia's sixth congressional district. The election was called because long-serving Republican house member Tom Price was appointed Health Secretary in Trump's cabinet. June's runoff election will pit Ossoff against Republican Karen Handel, 55, who pulled in just under 20 percent initially. The young documentary filmmaker has been backed by progressive activists nationwide in an effort to turn the district, long held by conservatives, Democratic. If elected, Ossoff would be the youngest member of Congress and one of just six representatives born after 1980. The youngest member of the current House is 32-year-old Elise Stefanik. The Republican from New York State was first voted into office at age 30 in 2014, making her the youngest woman ever elected to Congress. Stefanik is among the leaders of the Tuesday Group, a group of moderate House Republicans. She recently opposed President Trump's "travel ban" for people from Muslim-majority countries. The youngest Democrat currently serving in the House is Tulsi Gabbard. The 36-year old Hawaiian was first elected in 2013. Gabbard, who endorsed Bernie Sanders in the 2016 primary, is considered part of the progressive wing of the Democratic party, but has also come under fire from within her own party for supporting a bill backed by conservatives to block refugees from resettling in the US. The youngest current U.S. Senator is Tom Cotton, a 39-year old Republican from Arkansas. First elected in 2015, Cotton is known as a staunch conservative. News site "The Atlantic" once said that the Harvard-educated lawyer "unites the factions of the Republican civil war: The establishment loves his background, while the Tea Party loves his ideological purity." Colorado Republican Cory Gardner (pictured right), 42, and Connecticut Democrat Chris Murphy (left), 43, are the second- and third-youngest current Senators. Gardner, like House millennial Stefanik, is a moderate conservative who has criticized Trump's "travel ban". Murphy made a name for himself as an advocate for stricter gun control legislation. While John F. Kennedy might be remembered as the prototypical young president, he is in fact only the second youngest US president. Theodore "Teddy" Roosevelt was roughly 9 month younger than Kennedy when he was sworn into office at age 42 in 1901, making him the youngest president in US history. Current president Donald Trump (70) is the oldest man ever elected president. The youngest person ever elected to Congress, William C. C. Claiborne, entered the House at age 22 in 1797. The US Constitution originally required House members to be at least 21, but today that threshold is 25. The minimum age for senators has always been 30, though this rule has not always been enforced. To this day, four Senators were sworn in at age 28 or 29, all in the early 1800s. In many other countries, citizens only have to reach the legal voting age (usually 18) in order to be eligible in the elections. Among the rare breed of teens elected to the national parliament are Anton Abele (pictured), voted into the Swedish parliament in 2010 at age 18, and Proscovia Alengot Oromait and Pierre-Luc Dusseault from Uganda and Canada, respectively, both elected in 2011 at age 19. Author: Mara Bierbach Pelosi: 'Not about policing speech' Democratic House Speaker Nancy Pelosi said she did not believe Omar understood the "weight of her words" or the fact that her words would be perceived by some as anti-Semitic. "It's not about her. It's about these forms of hatred," Pelosi said. Asked whether the resolution was intended to "police" lawmakers' words, Pelosi replied said that her party was "not policing the speech" of House members. "We are condemning anti-Semitism," Islamophobia and white supremacy, she said. Read more: 'Don't bet against Pelosi,' former top aide warns Donald Trump A vote on the resolution was delayed on Thursday, as other members sought to expand the scope to include all forms of discrimination. The seven-page bill condemned anti-Semitism, anti-Muslim discrimination and bigotry against minorities "as hateful expressions of intolerance." Send  Facebook   Twitter   google+   Whatsapp   Tumblr   linkedin   stumble   Digg   reddit   Newsvine Permalink https://p.dw.com/p/3Bo47 Democrats split Omar's comments caused a rift within the Democratic Party among generational lines, with younger and newer members backing the freshman congresswoman and older, more established Democrats condemning her remarks. Democratic Representative Eliot Engel, who leads the Foreign Affairs Committee, said he welcomes policy debate on Israel but condemned Omar's remarks, saying it was "deeply offensive to call into question the loyalty of fellow American citizens because of their political views, including the US-Israel relationship." But the party's left flank came to Omar's defense. Senator Bernie Sanders, who is running for president in 2020, said that while anti-Semitism was a hateful and dangerous ideology that must be vigorously opposed, "we must not, however, equate anti-Semitism with legitimate criticism of the right-wing, Netanyahu government in Israel." A statement from Senator Elizabeth Warren of Massachusetts cautioned that "branding criticism of Israel as automatically anti-Semitic has a chilling effect on our public discourse and makes it harder to achieve a peaceful solution between Israelis and Palestinians." jcg/cmk (AP, AFP) Each evening at 1830 UTC, DW's editors send out a selection of the day's hard news and quality feature journalism. You can sign up to receive it directly here.