US Secretary of State Mike Pompeo (above left) compared President Donald Trump to Esther, the biblical Jewish queen of Persia who's heroism saves the Jews of her country. The story of Esther forms the basis of the Jewish story of Purim. Speaking with the Christian Broadcasting Network during a trip to the Middle East on Thursday, Pompeo was asked if he believed Trump was like Esther, due to his hardline stance against Iran. "As a Christian, I certainly believe that's possible," Pompeo said. He was later criticized for holding a press conference open only to "faith-based" journalists. Pompeo condemns Hezbollah On Friday, Pompeo condemned Iran and its Lebanese ally Hezbollah after a meeting in Beirut with Lebanese President Michel Aoun, Parliament Speaker Nabih Berri and Foreign Minister Gebran Bassil (above right), all of whom are politically allied with Hezbollah. Pompeo accused the group of "criminality, terror and threats." He said that Iran gave the organization as much as $700 million last year. Standing next to Pompeo, Bassil called Hezbollah "a Lebanese party — not terrorist — with MPs elected by the Lebanese people and with a lot of popular support." The US Secretary of State, however, said he believed that the Trump administration's pressure on Iran was "working," adding that it was "already constraining Hezbollah's activities." Hezbollah has a large militia-based wing that supported the regime of President Bashar al-Assad in the Syrian civil war. Hezbollah, or Party of God, was conceived by Muslim clerics in the 1980s in response to the Israeli invasion of South Lebanon in 1982. The Shiite group has a political and military wing. Hezbollah emerged in the 1980s as an amalgamation of Shiite militias and played a major role in the Lebanese civil war. It used guerrilla warfare to drive Israeli forces out of South Lebanon — Israel withdrew in 2000. Israel and Hezbollah fought another war in 2006. Its defense of Lebanon against Israel had won it cross-sectarian support and acceptance in Lebanese society. Since its creation, Hezbollah has received military, financial and political support from Iran and Syria. Today, Hezbollah's military wing is more powerful than Lebanon's own army and has become a major regional paramilitary force. Hezbollah turned its focus to politics following the end of Lebanon's 1975-1990 civil war. It represents a large section of the Lebanese Shiite population and is allied with other sectarian groups, including Christians. Their political development has mostly come under Hassan Nasrallah (pictured), who became the group's leader in 1992. Unlike other parties in Lebanon's multi-sided 1975-1990 civil war, Hezbollah did not disband its armed wing. Some Lebanese political groups, such as Prime Minister Saad Hariri's Future Movement, want Hezbollah to put down its arms. Hezbollah argues its militant wing is necessary to defend against Israel and other external threats. A number of countries and bodies, including the United States, Israel, Canada and the Arab League, consider Hezbollah a terrorist organization. However, Australia and the European Union differentiate between its legitimate political activities and its militant wing. Hezbollah has been one of the main backers of Syrian President Bashar Assad in the country's civil war. Its entrance into the war helped save Assad, one of its chief patrons; secured weapons supply routes from Syria and formed a buffer zone around Lebanon against Sunni militant groups it feared would take over Syria. As a result it has won considerable support from Shiite communities in Lebanon. Lebanon has long been at the center of regional power struggles, particularly between Saudi Arabia and Iran. However, Hezbollah's military and political ascendancy, as well as its intervention in Syria, have also helped stoke Sunni-Shiite sectarian tensions in Lebanon and across the region. Iran and Hezbollah have increased their political and military strength through the war in Syria. Israel views this as a threat and has carried out dozens of airstrikes on Iran/Hezbollah targets in Syria. Israel has vowed to not let Iran and Hezbollah create a permanent presence in Syria. There is growing concern of another war between Hezbollah and Israel that could draw in Iran. Author: Chase Winter es/msh (AP, Reuters) Every evening at 1830 UTC, DW's editors send out a selection of the day's hard news and quality feature journalism. You can sign up to receive it directly here.