Turkish President Recep Tayyip Erdogan met separately with his Iranian and Russian counterparts in Ankara on Monday, opening their fifth Syria peace summit. Russian officials said Erdogan and Russian President Vladimir Putin first spoke "tete-a-tete" in Ankara's presidential complex, without any media presence. "We spoke quite extensively about the Syria crisis and ways to regulate it," Putin told reporters after the meeting. The talks touched on incidents in the province of Idlib and elsewhere, he added. Putin also praised Iran's contribution towards "regulating" the conflict, saying that Moscow and Tehran managed to do "quite a lot to neutralize pockets of terrorist resistance and to create an effective, we could already say a working, system of political regulation." Turkey maintains a dozen military observation points inside Idlib Russia's nuclear link with Iran Erdogan, Putin, and Iranian President Hassan Rouhani met for a joint discussion later. The three leaders discussed the Syrian regime's offensive into rebel-controlled Idlib. Russian air power is supporting the government's efforts in the enclave, which is controlled by jihadists. Turkey maintains a military presence in Syria and its troops have occasionally clashed with forces allied with the regime. "The spectrum of Russian-Iranian ties does not involve only economy, but also includes cooperation in areas of defense, and of nuclear [technology]," Rouhani said in remarks carried in Russian. Moscow and Damascus say the offensive was launched in response to multiple jihadi attacks. Russia has signaled that Turkey should do more to control local jihadi factions, led by an al Qaida-affiliate Hayat Tahrir al-Sham (HTS). However, Turkey has been reluctant to strongly move against HTS for fear of triggering a new refugee wave. A crackdown on the jihadists could also see hardened fighters move across the nearby Turkish border. Turkey already hosts over 3.5 million Syrian refugees. Erdogan recently threatened to "open the gates" if his country did not receive more support from Europe to deal with the issue. Erdogan wants to send refugees back Erdogan called for a "peace corridor" in Syria's northeast that would allow refugees to return to their home country's territory. "We cannot tolerate another influx of refugees, that is impossible," Erdogan said at the joint press conference. He also said the real threat in Syria was the Kurdish YPG militia. Send  Facebook   Twitter   google+   Whatsapp   Tumblr   linkedin   stumble   Digg   reddit   Newsvine Permalink https://p.dw.com/p/3PfFm Rouhani accused Israel of "bombing innocent people" in Syria and said that the US was either "assisting terrorists or interfering in Syria unnecessarily." He also said that it was necessary to fight terrorists in Idlib, as they have maintained control the province for several years. "How long should the Syrian people wait?" he asked. Moscow cannot 'put up with' terrorists in Idlib Vladimir Putin also said his country was "ready to support Syria's army" in fighting the terrorist threat "wherever it arises." Echoing Rouhani's comments, Putin restated that Idlib was controlled by an affiliate of al Qaida. "We cannot, of course, put up with this," he said. At the press conference, the Russian president also said his country was working to keep the 2015 nuclear deal with Iran afloat. "There is no reasonable alternative to this," Putin said. The Kremlin chief also said he and his colleagues did not discuss the recent attack on Saudi oil infrastructure. At the same time, he suggested Riyadh to make a "wise" decision of buying high-tech Russian defensive weapons. "We are ready to provide the adequate help to Saudi Arabia, and it would be enough for its leadership to make a wise decision, just like the Iranian leadership has done at one point, to buy S-300, and like the President Erdogan has done, buying the latest AA system S-400 'Triumf' from Russia." Putin said. dj/rt (dpa, AFP, Interfax) Every evening, DW sends out a selection of the day's news and features. Sign up here.