Just minutes after Marco Reus saw his penalty brilliantly saved by Marc-Andre ter Stegen, Barcelona brought on Lionel Messi. Having missed a glorious chance to take a deserved lead at home, the best player ever came on. Now was the time to find out just how good this Dortmund team was, how mentally strong it could be. It turns out, on this night against the mighty Barcelona, this Dortmund team showed they can be really good. Reus was undeterred, Sancho still had a spring in his step as the final 20 minutes arrived and Mats Hummels delivered one of the all-time great defensive performances. The reason their dominance wasn't apparent on the scoresheet was because of a superb and timely performance from ter Stegen and the crossbar that denied Julian Brandt long-range glory. This was not Malaga or Real Madrid, but it was a game and a night to remember for the Ruhr club. Leading role in the opening act Against Barcelona, Dortmund were a team of neat one-touch passes, fewer individual errors and discipline. This was a team led by Hummels, held together by Axel Witsel and sparked into life by Jadon Sancho. This Borussia Dortmund played a leading role in the first act of this season's top European drama. Were it not for more fine saves by ter Stegen and a slight lack of composure from Sancho, they might have even led long before Reus missed from the spot. "We had four or five chances, and if we had taken one of them, we would have won," the Dortmund captain told Sky after the game. "We said after the draw that we wanted to qualify for the knockout stages. If we continue to play like we did today then there shouldn't be a problem." Dortmund may not have won this match, but they did prove they have the bottle for the big games. The elephant in Borussia Dortmund's room has long been mentality. The question has haunted BVB long before last season's failed title challenge. Since the last, sad year of Jürgen Klopp's tenure Dortmund have not been able to shake off the smaller teams, too often succumbing to a change of momentum. The question about the quality of this team is linked to its identity. Ever since Klopp led the team to unexpected glory, the club has been caught between being a genuine challenger to the Bavarian status quo and just another overachieving club. Noise levels rising On Tuesday evening, they showed themselves capable of not only competing with the best but controlling them. This was the performance of a club worthy of all the hype, and it seems fans in the Yellow Wall were also keen to raise the bar. Critical of their own support last season, fans have sought an improvement. In an attempt to find it, the central block of ultras in the Yellow Wall plans to spread out rather than congregate in the center, in an attempt to ripple the atmosphere and the sound. Against Barcelona, their support didn't just sound louder, it felt it. Not even the obligatory seats for European nights in Dortmund's famous stand could stop the noise. “I like these games. Even though we’re lacking a few thousand people [with standing areas seated], there’s still something special about Champions League nights in Dortmund," said midfielder Thomas Delaney afterwards. "It’s pretty easy to get excited when you step on the field.” If Dortmund can transfer Tuesday's mentality to those games against inferior opponents, when the lights aren't so bright but the points tally the same number, then this team will take an almighty step towards being as good as it thinks it is. Until then, nights like this will be special but isolated moments of brilliance rather than the foundations of glory. Another spirited display from Paderborn ended without reward as Schalke turned things around in the second half. Cauly Oliveira Souza had given the hosts the lead, but after Salif Sane equalized, Schalke were calmer. Shortly after the break, Suat Serdar's deflected shot put the visitors ahead. Armine Harit (twice) and Ahmed Kutucu added three more brilliant team goals as Paderborn fell apart. Life after Julian Nagelsmann continues to prove difficult for Hoffenheim, who were comfortably dispatched by a dangerous looking Freiburg team. Christian Streich's side took the lead thanks to a rare but impressive goal from Christian Günter. After Ishak Belfodil had an effort saved, Janik Haberer slotted a second to leave the home side reeling. On the hour mark, Nils Petersen added a third. In one of the fiercest derbies in the Bundesliga, Gladbach got the better of their hosts. Alassane Plea tucked home the opener after a defensive error and Gladbach should have led by at least two at the break, but wasted their chances. In the second half that continued, with Cologne short of ideas. Yann Sommer saved late to secure the win. Bayern started stronger, Robert Lewandowski finishing coolly after just three minutes to give the visitors the lead. Despite Bayern's dominance Leipzig fought back through an Emil Forsberg penalty just before halftime. Both teams had chances to take all three points in the second half, but it ended in a draw thanks to great goalkeeping from both Neuer and Gulacsi. Despite Lukas Hradecky's best efforts, Leverkusen couldn't stop BVB. The Finn made a brilliant double save to deny Marco Reus and Julian Brandt, but was eventually beaten when Achraf Hakimi's perfect cross was volleyed in by Paco Alcacer. Hradecky made another great save to deny Hakimi but was beaten three more times by Reus (twice) and Guerreiro as Dortmund eventually hammered Leverkusen 4-0. Goncalo Paciencia hit the post early, but then the visitors were undone when Alfred Finnbogason flicked a header into the area for Marco Richter to score. Florian Niederlechner curled in a beauty just before the break to make matters worse for Frankfurt. Paciencia got one back with 20 minutes to go but Frankfurt's late charge didn't end in an equalizer. The visitors won a game of three penalties. with Davy Klaassen netting a controversial first early on. Not long after, Sebastian Andersson converted from the spot when Christian Gross saw a corner land on his arm. In the second half, Klaassen missed a penalty but Niclas Füllkrug headed home from the resulting corner. The game finished with seven minutes of added time and two red cards. Mainz got their first win of the season thanks to a late winner. Davie Selke hit the post for Hertha after an even opening passage, but Mainz took the lead. Pierre Kunde did brilliantly down the right and his low cross was tucked in at the back post by Robin Quaison. Marko Grujic headed home an equalizer with seven minutes to go, but with two minutes left, Jeremiah St. Juste powered home a header. Josip Brekalo and Wout Weghorst combined well to rescue a point on the road for Wolfsburg, after underdogs Fortuna Düsseldorf took an early home lead. The hosts put up an impressive fight, also looking extremely dangerous with direct counterattacking football when the opportunity presented itself. Wolfsburg missed a chance to (briefly) move top of the table thanks to the dropped points.