The spokesman for Iran's Atomic Energy Organization said Saturday that the Islamic country had activated 20 IR-4 and 20 IR-6 centrifuges to boost its stockpile of enriched uranium. "The centrifuge machines, as they are engaged in research and development, will help with increasing the stockpile," spokesman Behrouz Kamalvandi said. "The capacity of these machines is many times more than the previous machines. This started as of yesterday (Friday)," he told reporters. The spokesman said the latest move would not hinder the UN monitoring of Iran's nuclear program. "Regarding the monitoring and accesses of the International Atomic Energy Agency (IAEA) ... so that everything is clear (Iran's) commitments regarding transparency will be followed as before," he said. Read more: Iran to develop centrifuges in further step away from nuclear deal Third breach Iranian President Hassan Rouhani announced Wednesday that his country would soon begin researching and developing improved centrifuges to speed up the process of enriching uranium. "All limitations on our research and development will be lifted on Friday," Rouhani said. Send  Facebook   Twitter   google+   Whatsapp   Tumblr   linkedin   stumble   Digg   reddit   Newsvine Permalink https://p.dw.com/p/3PBho The long-signaled move marks Iran's third breach of the international deal it signed in 2015, under which it agreed to limit its nuclear program in exchange for economic sanctions relief. In July, Iran abandoned two of its commitments under the deal by allowing its stockpile of enriched uranium to exceed the 300-kilogram limit and breaching the cap on the purity of its uranium stocks. The 2015 deal was struck after concerns from the US and its allies that the nuclear program Iran insisted was for civilian use aimed to produce weapons. US President Donald Trump withdrew from the accord last year and reimposed sanctions. Read more: Iran announces second breach of 2015 nuclear deal Iran ready to reverse measures European powers opposed the US implementation of sanctions and have sought to keep the deal alive, in part by trying to shield Iran from the impact of the US penalties. The new measures from Iran would be peaceful, watched over by the United Nations and could be reversed if European powers kept their promises, Rouhani said. He gave the parties to the deal another two months to fully implement its terms, saying if that happened Iran would return to implementing the agreement. Iran has said it could again fully comply with the deal if it secures an agreement with France on a proposed $15 billion (€13.6 billion) credit line, to be repaid once it resumed oil exports. The US has not categorically rejected the idea. Read more: European powers warn on Iran nuclear deal Send  Facebook   Twitter   google+   Whatsapp   Tumblr   linkedin   stumble   Digg   reddit   Newsvine Permalink https://p.dw.com/p/1DvXE shs/aw (AP, dpa, Reuters) Every evening, DW's editors send out a selection of the day's hard news and quality feature journalism. You can sign up to receive it directly here.