North Korea fired two "unidentified projectiles" from a launch site near Pyongyang into the sea off the country's east coast, South Korea's military said Tuesday. The launches were North Korea's eighth round since late July, and came just hours after Pyongyang offered to resume talks on its nuclear weapons program with the United States. Read more: North Korea's murky links to international cybercrime On Monday night, North Korean Deputy Foreign Minister Choe Son Hui said that the country would be willing to resume nuclear diplomacy with Washington later in September. But he warned that the United States must bring new proposals to the table or risk negotiations coming to an end. The time frame suggested by North Korea would coincide with the UN General Assembly meeting in New York. Choe said that if the United States "fiddle around again with the worn-out scenario," it could be the end of stalled talks. US President Donald Trump called North Korea's statement "interesting." "We'll see what happens," Trump said. "In the meantime ... we've had no nuclear testing for a long time." Read more: Germany, France, UK condemn North Korea missile tests Denuclearization talks stalled North Korea wants security guarantees and relief from international sanctions in return for limited denuclearization. The United States and its allies demand that North Korea completely end its nuclear weapons program in exchange for sanctions relief. Experts say the missile tests help North Korea develop its military technology but are also intended to send diplomatic signals to Washington. Negotiations between Pyongyang and Washington have not advanced since a second summit between the North's leader Kim Jong Un and Trump in February failed to produce a deal. Trump and Kim agreed to resume talks at an impromptu meeting in June at the Demilitarized Zone (DMZ) separating North and South Korea, but the negotiations have not materialized. Read more: Opinion: Donald Trump strolls through Kim Jong Un's North Korean minefield In August 2017, the UN Security Council adopted a resolution banning all coal, iron, iron ore and lead imports from North Korea. Pictured here is China's Liaoning Greenland Energy Coal Co. in Dandong, on the border with North Korea. North Korea is prohibited from opening banks abroad, and UN member states are prohibited from operating financial institutions on Pyongyang's behalf. Any dealings that might help North Korea skirt the sanctions are banned, and UN member states must expel and repatriate anyone working on the regime's financial behalf. This North Korean cargo ship found itself boarded for inspection in the Philippines in March 2016 after the United Nations ordered member nations to de-register any vessel owned, operated or crewed on orders from Pyongyang. North Korean ships also cannot fly the flags of other nations to evade sanctions. Air Koryo, North Korea's national carrier, remains exempt from aviation sanctions and still has scheduled flights to China and Russia, as well as several domestic routes. However, the airline cannot fly to the European Union, which has banned it on safety grounds, and the United States prevents citizens from legally conducting business with the carrier. In December 2017, a new raft of UN sanctions targeted fuel imports in North Korea, meaning its residents could have difficulties driving the country in Pyeonghwa sedans (pictured above). The sale and transfer of diesel and kerosene are limited while the import of crude oil is capped at 4 million barrels a year. UN sanctions limit North Korea's diplomats abroad — at the country's Berlin embassy, for example — to only one bank account each. North Korea is also not permitted to own real estate abroad for any purposes other than consular. It's a safe bet that North Korea's marching military did not learn its moves abroad: UN sanctions ban foreign security forces from training the country's army, police or paramilitary units. The United Nations does permit medical exchanges, but otherwise allow very little assistance of scientific or technical value. Anyone wanting to own a larger-than-life Kim will have to await the end of North Korea's nuclear program. The UN sanctions currently ban the sale of statues by the nation. North Korea's 'standard' missiles The South Korean military did not release details about whether the projectile fired on Tuesday was a ballistic missile or an artillery rocket. The previous seven launches were identified as short-range missiles. "We are aware of reports of projectiles launched from North Korea," a senior US official said Tuesday. "We are continuing to monitor the situation and consulting closely with our allies in the region." Read more: Donald Trump gets 'beautiful' letter from North Korea's Kim Jong Un Trump had previously dismissed such short-range missile tests as "standard," even though they could pose a threat to US allies and military bases. North Korea is banned from conducting ballistic missile tests under multiple UN Security Council resolutions. "I'm not happy about it, but then again he's not in violation of the agreement," Trump said last month, referring to an informal agreement whereby North Korea reportedly committed not to test intercontinental ballistic missiles. A UN report released in August said that North Korea is continuing its nuclear weapons program while evading sanctions. Send  Facebook   Twitter   google+   Whatsapp   Tumblr   linkedin   stumble   Digg   reddit   Newsvine Permalink https://p.dw.com/p/3NVSB wmr,cw (AP, AFP, dpa) Each evening at 1830 UTC, DW's editors send out a selection of the day's hard news and quality feature journalism. You can sign up to receive it directly here.