An away win that took them back to the top of the table looks, at first glance, like a great way for Bayern Munich to prepare for a trip to face Tottenham Hotspur in their second Champions League match of the season. But scratch the surface a little and a 3-2 win over Paderborn that was needlessly nervy for the champions revealed some of the flaws that mean they aren't among the true frontrunners for the Champions League this term. "We should have decided the game earlier for ourselves," said an angry Manuel Neuer afterwards. One man who must have thought he'd done enough to decide it was Bayern's Brazilian loan signing Philippe Coutinho. The perceptive playmaker ran the show for large parts of the game: picking passes few others could see, threading the needle for Serge Gnabry's opener, striking the woodwork and firing home the second. Hitting form After being eased in by Niko Kovac following his arrival after the Bundesliga season had started, the man teammate Benjamin Pavard has dubbed Bayern's "little wizard" has played all but seven minutes of the Bavarians' last three games, returning two goals and two assists. But more than the numbers, he's playing with a verve and freedom that was rarely evident in Barcelona, the club he joined from Liverpool last January for €120 million ($131 million). "I'm very happy. Bayern are more of a family than my old clubs," the 27-year-old said recently. "I know there is the atmosphere of Liverpool, but it's even more a family here at Bayern. The fans have been brilliant with me and it's great to feel that positive energy." The feeling seems to be mutual with Robert Lewandowski, who reportedly pushed for the club to sign Coutinho, and Kovac among those to have sung his praises. "The way he takes on the ball ⁠— his movement and short passes, coupled with his footballing intelligence ⁠— he gives us another dimension," said the Croatian coach. Spurs off the pace? Despite Lewandowski's record-breaking 10 goals in the first six Bundesliga games, Bayern may need a few more strings to their attacking bow ahead of Tuesday's trip to face last season's beaten finalists. A stuttering run of form has seen Spurs fall under the English media spotlight in recent weeks but a gritty 2-1 win over Southampton at the weekend, secured despite a dreadful error by goalkeeper Hugo Lloris and the early sending off of Serge Aurier, has taken them to fifth in the Premier League. According to defender Jan Vertonghen, it was just what the doctor ordered. “Maybe this is what we needed," said the Belgian, who was outstanding in Spurs' home demolition of Borussia Dortmund last season. "We also created a couple of nice chances but from the front to the back, everyone fought so hard and it’s a big win for us." Harry Kane's goal proved decisive for Spurs on Saturday Nevertheless, the drop off in form of Dele Alli and Lloris, Christian Eriksen's expiring contract, questions over Spurs' midfield balance and the quality of their fullbacks gives Bayern more than a sniff in a game that's become critical for Mauricio Pochettino's side after their 2-2 draw with Olympiacos on matchday one. Tale of two strikers But in Harry Kane, who Bayern CEO Karl-Heinz Rummenigge described alongside Lewandowski as "maybe the best striker in the world at the moment" and Son Heung-min, the hosts pose a real attacking threat. As a result, Kovac will be pleased to have Lucas Hernandez and David Alaba both in contention for a starting spot after injury concerns, while Ivan Perisic is available again after missing Saturday's match with illness. But Bayern's coach will also know that if his club are to maintain a strong recent record in London, where they've won four of their last five matches, a little magic might just be required. They seem to have just the man. Vedad Ibisevic came off the bench to bag a brace as Hertha won big against ten-man Cologne. Javairo Dilrosun put Hertha ahead, but the defining moment came just before halftime, when Cologne's Jorge Mere was shown a straight red for a rash challenge. Ibisevic put the game out of reach for the hosts with two goals within five minutes of coming off the bench, and Dedryck Boyata added a late fourth. Luca Waldschmidt scored a fine solo goal as Freiburg's winning run continued, sending them up to third in the table. The hosts took the lead through Rouwen Hennings, but Freiburg leveled on the stroke of halftime through Jonathan Schmidt's close-range finish. The winner came courtesy of Waldschmidt with nine minutes to play, when the young Germany star beat two players and let fly from distance. Dortmund missed the chance to keep the heat on Bayern Munich, succumbing to a draw with Bremen. The visitors took an early lead through Milot Rashica, but that was quickly cancelled out by Mario Götze, who headed in the equalizer on his first start of the season. Marco Reus seemed to put Dortmund on the path to victory before halftime, but Marco Friedl's header ensured a share of the points. The champions went top with a win that was more nervy than it needed to be. Serge Gnabry opened the scoring after a brilliant through ball from Coutinho in the first half before the pair reversed roles after the break. Substitute Kai Pröger crashed home a bouncing ball on 68 minutes before Robert Lewandowski looked to have sealed it. A late Jamilu Collins goal wasn't quite enough for the hosts. Amine Harit scored his fourth of the season from the penalty spot as resurgent Schalke inflicted Leipzig's first loss of the season. Harit's penalty at the end of the first half was sandwiched between a Salif Sane header and a first Bundesliga strike from young Welsh winger Rabbi Matondo. Despite Emil Forsberg's late consolation, David Wagner's Royal Blues have now won four on the bounce. Goals from Alassane Plea, Marcus Thuram and Florian Neuhaus helped the improving Foals to a win over a Hoffenheim side struggling to adjust to the post-Julian Nagelsmann era. Thuram wriggled down the right before finding Plea for the 43rd minute opener before driving in to the area to add the finishing touch to a counterattack. Neuhaus' late effort ensured Gladbach's third consecutive win. An early header from Marcel Tisserand settled the kind of game that showed why blunt Mainz are down at the wrong end of the table. The DR Congo international rose to nod home a ninth minute corner and kept the Wolves unbeaten start to the league season alive. Augsburg's rotten record against Saturday's visitors continued after a late surge from Leverkusen wrapped up the points. Florian Niederlechner turned in to his own net to give Peter Bosz's side a first half lead before Kevin Volland and Kai Havertz both scored in the final quarter of the match to seal the victory. Union's famous win over Borussia Dortmund is fast becoming a distant memory as goals from summer signings Bas Dost and Andre Silva secured the Eagles a Friday night win. A late strike from substitute Anthony Ujah couldn't quite spark the desired comeback and the capital club are looking over their shoulders. Author: Matt Pearson