Drone attacks claimed by Yemen's Houthi rebels caused major fires at two of Saudi Aramco's critical oil facilities, the kingdom's Interior Ministry said Saturday. Read more: Iran-US tensions flare in the Persian Gulf: What's at stake? In a statement carried by the official Saudi Press Agency, the Interior Ministry said fires broke out Saturday at 4 a.m. local time in Abqaiq and Khurais in the kingdom's oil-rich Eastern Province as a result of "drones." "The two fires have been controlled," said the ministry. Abqaiq is the location of the world's largest oil processing plant, which handles two-thirds of Saudi oil production. Khurais contains the country's second-largest oilfield. There was no immediate comment from state oil giant Saudi Aramco or information about deaths or injuries. It was also unclear how the attacks would impact oil production. Escalating attacks On the Houthi's Al-Masirah satellite news channel, military spokesman Yahia Sarie said the Iran-aligned rebels had launched 10 drones in a coordinated attack on the oil facilities in response to the Saudi-led war against rebel areas in Yemen. In recent months, Houthi rebels have ratcheted up attacks on Saudi air bases and other facilities, hitting targets deep inside the kingdom and overcoming its air defenses. The UN and Western powers accuse Iran of providing the Houthis with training and equipment to launch rocket and drone attacks, something Tehran denies. A drone attack in May on Saudi Arabia's East-West pipeline was initially claimed by the Houthis, but US officials later said they believed the drones were launched from Iraq, where Iran-backed Shiite militias remain a powerful political and military force. Smoke is seen rising from the Aramco oil processing facility in Abqaiq Growing tensions Tensions in the Persian Gulf have skyrocketed since May when the United States demanded buyers of Iranian oil stop purchases or face sanctions as part of Washington's "maximum pressure" campaign on Iran following President Donald Trump's withdrawal from the 2015 nuclear accord last year. Iran responded by saying that if it could not export oil, then nor could any other country in the region. Riyadh and Washington have blamed Iran for a series of attacks on oil tankers in the Gulf, and in June Iran downed a US drone. Send  Facebook   Twitter   google+   Whatsapp   Tumblr   linkedin   stumble   Digg   reddit   Newsvine Permalink https://p.dw.com/p/3P8AP cw/rc (AFP, AP, Reuters) Each evening at 1830 UTC, DW's editors send out a selection of the day's hard news and quality feature journalism. You can sign up to receive it directly here.