The UK Supreme Court ruled on Tuesday that Prime Minister Boris Johnson's decision to suspend Parliament was unlawful. The ruling was unanimous, and no further appeal by the government is possible. "This was not a normal prorogation in the runup to a Queen's Speech," said Brenda Hale, the president of the Supreme Court. "The court is bound to conclude, therefore, that the decision to advise Her Majesty to prorogue Parliament was unlawful." The ruling means "the prorogation was void and of no effect." Parliament can therefore reconvene "as soon as possible," Hale concluded. Read more: UK Supreme Court ruling — What happens next? Responding to the decision from the UN General Assembly in New York, Prime Minister Boris Johnson said he would abide by the court ruling, though said he "strongly" disagreed with the Supreme Court. "I don't think that it's right, but we will go ahead and of course Parliament will come back," he said. "I think the most important thing is to get on with it and deliver Brexit on October 31." The speaker of the House of Commons, John Bercow, said he welcomed the ruling and that Parliament must "reconvene without delay" and continue its operations on Wednesday morning. Sturgeon: Parliament should force Johnson out The prime minister's political rivals immediately called on Johnson to leave his post. Jeremy Corbyn, Labour Party leader and head of the opposition, said the illegal suspension of Parliament showed Johnson's "contempt" for democracy and the rule of law. Speaking at a party conference in Brighton, he said, "I invite Boris Johnson, in those historic words, to 'consider his position.'" Jo Swinson, the leader of the Liberal Democrats, said the ruling confirmed "what we already knew — Boris Johnson isn't fit to be prime minister." "He's misled queen and country and unlawfully silenced the people's representatives," Swinson said, adding that she was on her way to Parliament to "stop Brexit altogether." Scottish First Minister Nicola Sturgeon said Tuesday's decision was "the most significant and historical ruling" in living memory. "If the prime minister isn't prepared to do the decent and honorable thing in tendering his resignation, then I think Parliament should quickly come together to force this prime minister from office." Scottish National Party lawmaker Joanna Cherry agreed. "His position is untenable, and he should have the guts for once to do the decent thing and resign," she said. Cherry is one of the lawyers who brought the initial case to the Court of Session in Edinburgh, Scotland. Rule of law 'alive & kicking' Nigel Farage, the leader of the Brexit party and a founding member of UKIP, took shots at Johnson's trusted adviser, Dominic Cummings, who allegedly spearheaded the idea of suspending Parliament. "The calling of a Queen's Speech and prorogation is the worst political decision ever," Farage said on Twitter. "Dominic Cummings must go." The European Parliament's Brexit Coordinator, Guy Verhofstadt, said on Twitter that the ruling showed "the rule of law in the UK is alive & kicking." "Parliaments should never be silenced in a real democracy," he wrote. "I never want to hear Boris Johnson or any other Brexiteer say again that the European Union is undemocratic." No 'good reason' to prorogue Parliament Protesters outside the Supreme Court in London welcomed the court's decision. After the ruling, several lawmakers were seen arriving at the Parliament building. The UK Parliament was officially suspended by Queen Elizabeth, who is politically neutral. The monarch acts on the advice of her prime minister. Normally, the process is a formality to end one parliamentary session and start a new one. However, Johnson's critics claim his advice to the monarch was aimed at silencing MPs while the prime minister was dealing with the EU on Brexit. The government has denied that the move was linked to the divorce procedure. Instead, they said they were attempting to clear the way for a new work program in Parliament. Read more: Risk of no-deal Brexit 'very real' says EU Commission head Juncker "It is impossible for us to conclude, on the evidence which has been put before us, that there was any reason — let alone a good reason — to advise Her Majesty to prorogue Parliament for five weeks," the judges said. Several lawmakers, including Johnson's opponents thrown out of the Tory party, previously stated he should resign if it turned out that he had misled the queen. The unanimous verdict and the blunt wording by the 11 judges on Tuesday mark a harsh rebuke to Johnson, who succeeded Theresa May less than two months ago after she failed to push a divorce deal through Parliament. Johnson has pledged to leave the EU on October 31, with or without a deal. After a shrill referendum campaign, nearly 52 percent of British voters opted to leave the EU on June 23. Polls had shown a close race before the vote with a slight lead for those favoring remaining in the EU. Conservative British Prime Minister David Cameron, who had campaigned for Britain to stay, acknowledged the "will of the British people" and resigned the following morning. Former Home Secretary Theresa May replaced David Cameron as prime minister on July 11 and promised the country that "Brexit means Brexit." May had quietly supported the Remain campaign before the referendum. She did not initially say when her government would trigger Article 50 of the EU treaty to start the two-year talks leading to Britain's formal exit. May eventually signed a diplomatic letter over six months later on March 29, 2017 to trigger Article 50. Hours later, Britain's ambassador to the EU, Tim Barrow, handed the note to European Council President Donald Tusk. Britain's exit was officially set for March 29, 2019. Tusk ended his brief statement on the decision with: "We already miss you. Thank you and goodbye." British Brexit Secretary David Davis and the EU's chief negotiator, Michel Barnier, kicked off talks in Brussels on June 19. The first round ended with Britain reluctantly agreeing to follow the EU's timeline for the rest of the negotiations. The timeline split talks into two phases. The first would settle the terms of Britain's exit, and the second the terms of the EU-UK relationship post-Brexit. The second round of talks in mid-July began with an unflattering photo of a seemingly unprepared British team. It and subsequent rounds ended with little progress on three phase one issues: How much Britain still needed to pay into the EU budget after it leaves, the post-Brexit rights of EU and British citizens and whether Britain could keep an open border between Ireland and Northern Ireland. Leaders of the remaining 27 EU members formally agreed that "sufficient progress" had been made to move on to phase two issues: the post-Brexit transition period and the future UK-EU trading relationship. While Prime Minister Theresa May expressed her delight at the decision, European Council President Tusk ominously warned that the second stage of talks would be "dramatically difficult." British ministers appeared to back a Brexit plan at May's Chequers residence on July 6. The proposal would have kept Britain in a "combined customs territory" with the EU and signed up to a "common rulebook" on all goods. That went too far for British Foreign Minister Boris Johnson and Brexit Secretary David Davis, who resigned a few days later. May replaced them with Jeremy Hunt and Dominic Raab. May's Chequers proposal did not go down well with EU leaders, who told her at a summit in Salzburg in late September that it was unacceptable. EU Council President Tusk trolled May on Instagram, captioning a picture of himself and May looking at cakes with the line: "A piece of cake perhaps? Sorry, no cherries." The gag echoed previous EU accusations of British cherry-picking. EU leaders endorsed a 585-page draft divorce deal and political declaration on post-Brexit ties in late November. The draft had been widely condemned by pro- and anti-Brexit lawmakers in the British Parliament only weeks earlier. Brexit Secretary Dominic Raab resigned along with several other ministers, and dozens of Conservative Party members tried to trigger a no-confidence vote in May. In the face of unrelenting opposition, May postponed a parliamentary vote on the deal on December 10. The next day, she met with German Chancellor Angela Merkel to seek reassurances that would, she hoped, be enough to convince skeptical lawmakers to back the deal. But while she was away, hard-line Conservative lawmakers triggered a no-confidence vote. May won the vote a day later. The UK Parliament voted 432 to 202 against May's Brexit deal on January 16. In response to the result, European Council President Donald Tusk suggested the only solution was for the UK to stay in the EU. Meanwhile, Britain's Labour Party called for a no-confidence vote in the prime minister, her second leadership challenge in as many months. May tried to get legal changes to the deal's so-called Irish backstop in the weeks that followed. She eventually got assurances that the UK could suspend the backstop under certain circumstances. But on March 12, Parliament voted against the revised Brexit deal by 391 to 242. EU leaders warned the vote increased the likelihood of a no-deal Brexit. Two days later, MPs voted to delay Brexit. Following the second defeat of May's divorce deal, the European Council met in Brussels on March 21 to decide what to do next. EU leaders gave May two options: delay Brexit until May 22 if MPs vote for the withdrawal deal or delay it until April 12 if they vote against the deal. If the deal were to fail again in Parliament, May could ask for a long extension. On March 29, the day that the UK was supposed to leave the EU, British lawmakers voted for a third time against May's deal — rejecting it this time with a vote of 344 to 286. Following the latest defeat, May approached the main opposition Labour leader Jeremy Corbyn in an attempt to find a compromise, angering hardline Brexiteers in her own Conservative party. With the April 12 deadline looming after the third defeat of May's deal, EU leaders met again in Brussels to discuss a second delay. The only question was how long should it be? In the end, the UK and EU agreed to a "flexible" extension until October 31 — which can end sooner if the Brexit deal is approved. The UK had to take part in EU elections in May because their exit wasn't secured in time. Weeks of talks between Prime Minister Theresa May and the Labour party to reach a deal proved unsuccessful and further eroded her political capital. She triggered an angry backlash from her party after she tried to put the option of a second referendum on the table. The series of failures led May to announce her resignation, effective June 7, in an emotional address. After Theresa May announced on June 7 that she would leave office, other members of her Conservative party began clamoring for the top job. Within a month, the leadership battle came down to Hunt (left), an EU proponent who fears a no-deal scenario, and Johnson (right), one of the main proponents of Brexit. At the end of July 2019, Johnson was officially named Theresa May's successor as British prime minister. "We are going to energize the country, we are going to get Brexit done by October 31," he said after he was elected leader of the Conservative Party. Conservative rebels and opposition MPs backed efforts to delay an October 31 Brexit deadline in fear of a no-deal departure. In response, Johnson called for a general election, saying his government cannot rule without a mandate after he stripped 21 rebel MPs of their Conservative status. The Labour Party said it would not back elections until legislation to block a no-deal Brexit was in place. Author: Alexander Pearson dj, ed/ng (Reuters, AFP) Every evening, DW sends out a selection of the day's news and features. Sign up here.