A Japanese court on Thursday acquitted three former executives at Tokyo Electric Power (TEPCO) of negligence for the 2011 Fukushima disaster, closing the only criminal case to stem from one of the world's worst nuclear crises. Prosecutors had argued that the executives bore responsibility for the disaster because they were aware that a tsunami exceeding 10 meters (33 feet) could cause power loss and trigger a major disaster at the nuclear power plant. However, prosecutors had twice denied proceeding with the case, citing insufficient evidence and little chance to arrive at a conviction. Their decision forced state-appointed lawyers to take up the case. The executives — TEPCO former-Chairman Tsunehisa Katsumata (79) and former vice presidents Sakae Muto (69) and Ichiro Takekuro (73) — said while they were aware of studies on the impact of tsunamis, they did not manage day-to-day operations and trusted those in charge of nuclear safety. "It is difficult to deal with issues that are uncertain and obscure," Takekuro said during the trial. 'Unjust' The plaintiffs were expected to appeal the Tokyo District Court decision. A group of their supporters stood outside the court with signs reading "unjust sentence." Even before the ruling came, Hiroyuki Kawai, a lawyer representing the more than 5,700 Fukushima residents, said he expected the legal battle to last about a decade as the losing side would appeal. "This is only the beginning of a major battle," he said. "Our ultimate goal is to eradicate dangerous nuclear plants that have thrown many residents into despair." Read more: Japan's TEPCO begins nuclear fuel rod removal at Fukushima reactor Several former residents of the Fukushima prefecture have called on Tokyo to scrap nuclear power 'Only the beginning' In 2011, a magnitude 9.0 earthquake triggered a massive tsunami that devastated the Fukushima Daiichi Nuclear Power Station, causing three of its six reactors to meltdown and eventually release radiation over a wide area across the Fukushima prefecture. Nearly 20,000 people were killed by the earthquake and tsunami. However, the leaking radiation triggered a mass evacuation, forcing more than 160,000 people to flee their homes. Some of those that survived the nuclear disaster said they were disappointed with the court's decision. "We cannot understand this," said a former resident of Fukushima. "We have been deprived of our homes and hometowns." Read more: Japan's biggest nuclear operators forging alliance Every evening, DW's editors send out a selection of the day's hard news and quality feature journalism. You can sign up to receive it directly here. The worst nuclear disaster of all time, the explosion at Chernobyl nuclear plant in Ukraine released massive amounts of radiation into the atmosphere. Areas close to the plant - in Ukraine, Belarus and Russia - were heavily contaminated. Heightened levels of radiation were also measured across most of Europe. The "exclusion zone" around Chernobyl remains off-limits to human habitation today. After a magnitude-9 earthquake and consequent tsunami, three nuclear reactors at Fukushima power plant in Japan went into meltdown in March 2011. There were also four hydrogen explosions. The accident released 500 times as much radioactive cesium-137 as the nuclear bomb dropped on Hiroshima in 1945. The clean-up is expected to take decades. After Chernobyl, thousands of people developed cancer. In Japan too, the heavily contaminated region of Fukushima, where 200,000 people lost their homes, saw cases of the disease escalate. The number of children with thyroid cancer there is 20 times higher than other regions. Chernobyl fueled public opposition to nuclear power, particularly in Europe. The same happened after Fukushima. Before the Japanese disaster, the country relied on nuclear for 30 percent of its power. That has fallen to 1 percent. The government wants to continue producing nuclear power and plans to reinstall some reactors. But affected regions have successfully pushed back those plans. Today, the nuclear power sector is deep in economic crisis. In Japan, the United States and France, nuclear power plants run at a loss, and construction projects for new reactors have been postponed. France had high hopes for its newest nuclear reactors - called pressurized water reactors (PWRs). This technology was supposed to be safe, and the Flamanville power plant was due to be switched on in 2012. Due to security issues, that's been pushed back to 2018 at the earliest. The project will cost more than 10 billion euros - three times the original budget. For years, the UK has been planning to build two new PWR reactors at Hinkley Point. Costs are estimated at 33 billion euros and groundbreaking is slated for 2019. But doubts are growing over its economic viability. The electricity it produces will be much pricier than solar or wind power, and will need subsidies to compete in the market. Nuclear power plants used to be lucrative. But now, many are old and frail. Repair costs often mean they cannot turn a profit. Swiss energy corporation Alpiq recently tried to give away two of its old plants, 33 and 38 years old, to French energy company EDF - which declined the offer. Three decades ago, the Chernobyl disaster galvanized Germany's anti-nuclear movement, which is often cited as the roots of the country's energy transition. In 2002, Germany passed a law that would have seen the last reactor shut down in 2022. The plan was later scrapped by Angela Merkel's government. But after Fukushima, Merkel quickly reversed her decision and the phase-out was back on track. So far, nine of Germany's reactors have gone offline, with eight more to follow by 2022. To finance the costs of nuclear waste disposal, plant operators must pay 23.6 billion euros into a federal fund. The operators themselves are responsible for the similarly costly process of dismantling the plants, which will take decades to complete. Across the EU and Switzerland 132 nuclear reactors are still online. They were designed to operate for 30 to 35 years - their average age is now 32 years. Malfunctions and security issues are frequently detected and protestors are increasingly calling for plants to be shut down. No new nuclear power plants have been built in the EU, Japan or Russia since the Fukushima disaster in 2011. China remains committed to nuclear, partly to replace coal-based power. But the country is also upping investment in wind and solar. Author: Gero Rueter (sst,jf) ls/sms (Reuters, AP, AFP, dpa)