Muhammad Amin, 55, a resident of Karimabad village in the southern part of India-administered Kashmir, was shocked when India stripped the region of its special constitutional status last month and split it into two separate territories governed directly by New Delhi. Since August 5, the day the Indian government announced its decision, India-administered Kashmir has been under an unprecedented military clampdown. Read more: Kashmir: DW reporter's first-hand account of the 'siege' To suppress any unrest, authorities have cut all communications, imposed a curfew and deployed thousands of additional troops to a region which is already one of the most militarized in the world. Amin said this is the first time he has witnessed such drastic restrictions on people's movement and communication. "The kind of security lockdown currently in place, I have never seen it before. It didn't occur even during the early 1990s when militants roamed openly in the region. There is hardly any militancy now, but the presence of armed forces on the streets is more than ever," he said. Send  Facebook   Twitter   google+   Whatsapp   Tumblr   linkedin   stumble   Digg   reddit   Newsvine Permalink https://p.dw.com/p/3PASd Immense hardship The communication blockade that was imposed over a month ago continues indefinitely till date, with no word from authorities about when it will be restored. The internet and phone connectivity, barring landline phones that have been restored over the past couple of weeks, have been completely suspended. This has led to the region's residents being cut off from the outside world. "We do not know what the government is up to. New Delhi doesn't want the world to know what's going on here. The communication blockade has created havoc in our lives," Amin said, referring to the difficulties faced by residents, particularly in southern Kashmir where many areas continue to face restrictions on people's movement. Read more: Kashmir communication blackout distorts public discourse in India The lockdown and restrictions on communication have caused immense hardship for the region's people. Munawara Begum, a resident of Rawalpora, said she had to take her child for medical treatment and not a single doctor was available as all private clinics were shut. "We went to the hospital and the emergency ward was crowded as people have no other option," she said. "We then took him to a pharmacy where they gave him medicines." Even the UN rights chief on Monday voiced alarm over the current situation. "I am deeply concerned about the impact of recent actions by the government of India on the human rights of Kashmiris," Michelle Bachelet said in her opening statement to the UN Human Rights Council in Geneva. 'Hatred for India' While Indian authorities claim that the situation is returning to normal, Muhammad Shaban, 60, warns that the current "suppression" will generate another armed rebellion in the region. He said that the government's moves have already strengthened the separatist sentiment among the population. "They have crushed people's voices and we can't even express our resentment. But how long can they do it? History is witness; such oppression only backfires badly," Shaban, a resident of the southern Anantnag district, said. Shaban fears that New Delhi's decision has strengthened "hatred for India" in the region, where a three-decade-old insurgency has intensified with popular support in recent years. It will force many more young men to pick up guns, he said. "There were still people, like mainstream political workers, who sided with the idea of India, but India has choked that space also," he said, referring to the widespread crackdown on top politicians and political workers in the region. "What democratic space do people have to protest or to express themselves? There is none. So it will definitely force people, especially the young ones, to take extremes steps. There were people who were against the gun culture, they did not approve of militancy, but what is left for them now?" he asked. On February 27, Pakistan's military said that it had shot down two Indian fighter jets over disputed Kashmir. A Pakistani military spokesman said the jets were shot down after they'd entered Pakistani airspace. It is the first time in history that two nuclear-armed powers have conducted air strikes against each other. The Pakistani military has released this image to show that Indian warplanes struck inside Pakistani territory for the first time since the countries went to war in 1971. India said the air strike was in response to a recent suicide attack on Indian troops based in Jammu and Kashmir. Pakistan said there were no casualties and that its airforce repelled India's aircraft. Some Indian civil society members believe New Delhi cannot exonerate itself from responsibility by accusing Islamabad of creating unrest in the Kashmir valley. A number of rights organizations demand that Prime Minister Narendra Modi's government reduce the number of troops in Kashmir and let the people decide their fate. On February 14, at least 41 Indian paramilitary police were killed in a suicide bombing near the capital of India-administered Kashmir. The Pakistan-based Jihadi group, Jaish-e-Mohammad, claimed responsibility. The attack, the worst on Indian troops since the insurgency in Kashmir began in 1989, spiked tensions and triggered fears of an armed confrontation between the two nuclear-armed powers. Since 1989, Muslim insurgents have been fighting Indian forces in the Indian-administered part of Kashmir - a region of 12 million people, about 70 percent of whom are Muslim. India and Pakistan have fought two of their three wars since independence in 1947 over Kashmir, which they both claim in full but rule in part. In October 2016, the Indian military has launched an offensive against armed rebels in Kashmir, surrounding at least 20 villages in Shopian district. New Delhi accused Islamabad of backing the militants, who cross over the Pakistani-Indian "Line of Control" and launch attacks on India's paramilitary forces. The security situation in the Indian part of Kashmir deteriorated after the killing of Burhan Wani, a young separatist leader, in July 2016. Protests against Indian rule and clashes between separatists and soldiers have claimed hundreds of lives since then. In September 2016, Islamist militants killed at least 17 Indian soldiers and wounded 30 in India-administered Kashmir. The Indian army said the rebels had infiltrated the Indian part of Kashmir from Pakistan, with initial investigations suggesting that the militants belonged to the Pakistan-based Jaish-e-Mohammad group, which has been active in Kashmir for over a decade. Indian authorities banned a number of social media websites in Kashmir after video clips showing troops committing grave human rights violations went viral on the Internet. One such video that showed a Kashmiri protester tied to an Indian army jeep — apparently as a human shield — generated outrage on social media. Those in favor of an independent Kashmir want Pakistan and India to step aside and let the Kashmiri people decide their future. "It is time India and Pakistan announce the timetable for withdrawal of their forces from the portions they control and hold an internationally supervised referendum," Toqeer Gilani, the president of the Jammu and Kashmir Liberation Front in Pakistani Kashmir, told DW. But most Kashmir observers don't see it happening in the near future. They say that while the Indian strategy to deal strictly with militants and separatists in Kashmir has partly worked out, sooner or later New Delhi will have to find a political solution to the crisis. Secession, they say, does not stand a chance. Author: Shamil Shams Another resident, Jana Begum, said that in her village in the volatile Shopian district, more than two dozen insurgents were killed after the 2016 agitation, which was sparked by the killing of a young militant Burhan Wani. She fears that the current situation could become even worse. "Everyone now wants freedom," the 55-year-old said. "Because the authorities have muzzled all voices and blocked all sources for people to communicate, they are able to control it temporarily." She added: "people had no idea that India would take such a step and everyone was caught unaware. They are really in shock and do not know how to react. "The authorities claim that there have been no protests and killings, but let them allow people to protest then they will see." Send  Facebook   Twitter   google+   Whatsapp   Tumblr   linkedin   stumble   Digg   reddit   Newsvine Permalink https://p.dw.com/p/3PGHA Widespread anger Protesters say the anger against New Delhi's actions has permeated all sections of Kashmiri society. Jamia Masjid, the largest mosque in the Kashmir Valley, has remained locked for the past one month and paramilitary forces are heavily deployed in its vicinity. Protests and clashes with security personnel have occurred regularly in several areas, particularly in the region's main city Srinagar. To control the protesters, troops have often used tear gas and pellet guns. Firdous Ahmad Khan, whose teenage son Asrar was wounded by pellets on the evening of August 6 and passed away at a hospital earlier this month, said he wanted justice for his son. Asrar, 17, was focused on his studies and he was also an avid cricketer, Khan said. "They fired without any provocation. He was playing cricket and they fired at him," he said.