Search-and-rescue operations in the Bahamas are racing to reach communities devastated by Hurricane Dorian, while several hundred survivors in Abaco's Marsh Harbor waited on Saturday to be transported from the island. The official death toll of Hurricane Dorian rose to 43, but government officials have said the figure is likely to rise. Dorian was the most powerful hurricane on record to hit the Bahamas, as it parked itself over part of the country for nearly two days as a Category 5 storm with wind gusts topping 320 kph (200 mph). The hurricane is now moving as a Category 2 storm up the east coast of the US toward the Canadian maritime province of Nova Scotia. "We acknowledge that there are many missing and that the number of deaths is expected to significantly increase," Bahamas Prime Minister Hubert Minnis said. "This is one of the stark realities we are facing in this hour of darkness." Minnis added, saying that the loss of life in the country was "catastrophic and devastating." Hurricane Dorian left large swaths of the northern Bahamas as wasteland. Homes were leveled, cars and boats were tossed around and survivors described an overwhelming smell of death in parts of Great Abaco Island. 'Too many dead bodies' in Abaco Bahamian authorities said all ports in Grand Bahama and in hard-hit Abaco had been reopened. Storm survivors flocked to the reopened transportation hubs in hopes of receiving aid or getting out. Bahamian security forces have been assisting as evacuations begin. Survivors in Abaco's Marsh Harbor line up to evacuate on Saturday Residents described conditions on the islands as oppressive and unsanitary. Chamika Durosier, a survivor waiting at the Abaco airport, told AFP that the island was unsafe. "It's chaos here," said Gee Rolle told AFP as he and his wife waited for a boat in Abaco, hoping to reach the capital, Nassau. "It ain't livable for nobody. Only animals can live here," he added. "It's been almost a week and people are still here. People have no food. People have no water, and it's not right. They should have been gone," Durosier said. "Dead bodies are still around and it's not sanitary." Claudin Loriston, a Haitian carpenter who fled Abaco, told Reuters that there were "too many dead bodies" on the island. "The government needs to remove everyone from the island, the smell is everywhere, it's in the water," Loriston said. The Pan American Health Organization described the situation in parts of Abaco island as "desperate" and warned of the risk of diarrhea and waterborne disease outbreaks from contaminated drinking water. Refugees arrive in Florida Relief groups have focused on getting doctors, nurses and medical supplies on the ground in the hardest-hit areas, such as Abaco, and helping survivors obtain food and safe drinking water. The dining room of a Royal Caribbean cruise ship has been used to distribute relief meals The US Coast Guard, the United Nations, the British Royal Navy, American Airlines and Royal Caribbean, as well as other private and relief organizations, have all mobilized to help evacuate and send in food, water, generators, roof tarps, diapers, flashlights and other supplies. The US Coast Guard says it has rescued a total of 290 people in the Bahamas. US broadcaster CNN reported the arrival in Florida of a cruise ship with more than 1,400 evacuees. A shelter was set up for the hurricane survivors, but many of them were also reuniting with family members in the state. The American Red Cross said it had committed an initial $2 million (€1.8 million) to help the Bahamas recover from the hurricane. "Our relief operation is growing, but we are also facing serious challenges in terms of delivering aid," Red Cross spokeswoman Jennifer Eli said. "Even search-and-rescue choppers haven't been able to reach some people because there's no place to land. These challenges are affecting everyone." The United Nations said last week that some 70,000 people were "in immediate need of life-saving assistance" in the archipelago. The most urgent needs are currently food, water, shelter and medicine. jcg/tj (Reuters, AFP, dpa, AP) Hurricane Dorian briefly made landfall on the Outer Banks of North Carolina on Friday, hitting the barrier islands with powerful winds and battering waves days after reducing parts of the Bahamas to rubble. Downgraded to a Category 1 storm, Dorian had maximum sustained winds of 90 miles per hour (150 km per hour), according to the National Hurricane Center. Hatteras Island on Friday as Dorian passes over. Storm-hardened locals were reportedly surprised by the force of the storm, and many people have been reported trapped by floodwaters. A Category 2 Hurricane Dorian shown here off the coast of the US state of Georgia on Tuesday night. The storm slowly moved northward targeting South and North Carolina over Wednesday and Thursday, with the eye remaining just off the coastline. A boarded-up shop in the coastal city of Wilmington, North Carolina on Thursday as Dorian approaches. Many residents of the area heeded evacuation orders, while others prepared to ride out the storm. Storm surge as Dorian moves north off the coast of North Carolina on Thursday. Forecasters said the center of the storm would graze the North Carolina coast Thursday night into Friday morning with maximum sustained winds of 100 mph (161 kph). A waterspout spawned by Dorian reportedly tore through a mobile home park located near the coast of Emerald Isle, North Carolina on Thursday. As Dorian moved along the South Carolina coast on Thursday, storm surges and heavy rain flooded the city of Charleston. Weather forecasters warned that some areas of the Carolina coast could see storm surges of up to 7 feet (2.1 meters) and between 6 and 12 inches of rain. Dorian grazed the coast of Florida on Tuesday as a strong Category 4 storm. The eye remained far enough off at sea and spared the area from major damage. Hurricane Dorian ravaged the Bahamas as a monster Category 5 storm. Abaco Island was one of the worst-hit areas. The health minister of the Bahamas said Thursday that the death toll is expected to rise as clean up efforts get underway. Each evening at 1830 UTC, DW's editors send out a selection of the day's hard news and quality feature journalism. You can sign up to receive it directly here.