Turkish President Recep Tayyip Erdogan described talks with his Russian and Iranian counterparts at a Syria peace summit on Monday as "productive." "We are in complete agreement in aiming for a lasting political solution for Syria's political unity and territorial integrity," Erdogan told reporters. While all three leaders avoided providing specifics on the talks, the Turkish president said that "important decisions" had been made. The dominant topic at the summit was the situation in Idlib, where government forces are conducting an offensive supported by Russian air power. Turkey maintains a military presence in northern Syria and its troops have occasionally clashed with regime forces. Turkey maintains a dozen military observation points inside Idlib Foreign troops to leave Syria, eventually Moscow and Damascus say the offensive was launched in response to multiple jihadi attacks. Russia has signaled that Turkey should do more to control local jihadi factions, led by Hayat Tahrir al-Sham (HTS). Russian President Vladimir Putin said his country was "ready to support Syria's army" in fighting the terrorist threat "wherever it arises." Putin also restated that Idlib was controlled by the al Qaida-affiliated HTS. "We cannot, of course, put up with this," he said. However, Putin said that foreign troops should be pulled out of Syria once security is ensured and all issues of combating terrorism are resolved. Syria's territorial integrity should be restored "completely," he said. Send  Facebook   Twitter   google+   Whatsapp   Tumblr   linkedin   stumble   Digg   reddit   Newsvine Permalink https://p.dw.com/p/3PfFm Rouhani slams US, Israel Iranian President Hassan Rouhani also said that it was necessary to fight terrorists in Idlib, as they have maintained control of the province for several years. "How long should the Syrian people wait?" he asked. The Iranian leader also accused Israel of "bombing innocent people" in Syria and said that the US was either "assisting terrorists or interfering in Syria unnecessarily." Ankara wants to send refugees to Syria 'peace corridor' Turkey has been reluctant to move strongly against HTS in Idlib for fear of triggering a new wave of refugees. A crackdown on the jihadists could also see hardened fighters move across the nearby Turkish border. On Monday, Turkey's Erdogan said the real threat in Syria was the Kurdish YPG militia. He also called for a "peace corridor" in Syria's northeast that would allow refugees to return to their home country's territory. Turkey currently hosts over 3.5 million Syrian refugees. "We cannot tolerate another influx of refugees, that is impossible," Erdogan said at the joint press conference. Iran's nuclear link with Russia Earlier in the day, Erdogan met both of his colleagues separately at the Ankara presidential complex, including a "tete-a-tete" meeting with Putin without any media presence. Following the bilateral meeting, Putin said the two leaders "spoke quite extensively" about ways to "regulate" the crisis in Syria. Turkey sees no difference between the US-backed Syrian Democratic Forces (SDF) in northern Syria and the PKK organization in Turkey. The PKK is also considered a terrorist organization by the US and the EU, however, the western allies have supported SDF in their fight against the "Islamic State" (IS) group. Adla Bakir, head of the Kongra Star organization, an umbrella for women’s groups in Rojava, recalls how she gave an oath to serve the people in the opening stages of the Kurdish revolution in 2011. The revolution’s emphasis on gender rights has empowered women to become fighters, politicians and activists. Elderly women from the Society Protection Units set up nightly roadblocks in Kobani. The force is led by male and female volunteers, and is independent of the official police and armed forces. The volunteers are drawn from across all communes in the city, with the aim to swiftly mobilize forces in the event of an attack, and to prevent a repeat of the 2015 civilian massacre by IS. A Kurdish fighter serving with the US-backed Syrian Democratic Forces (SDF) in Kobani enjoys some time with his son. He, like many other soldiers, is deployed in close proximity to his home and family. The Turkish border is a few hundred meters away. The funeral of a Kurdish SDF fighter in Kobani. He was killed while fighting against IS forces in Deir Ezzor province in November. Despite US President Donald Trump's claim that IS has been defeated, the battle along the Euphrates river is far from over. Martyrs' Center in Kobani. Following years of clandestine work, the center was able to open publicly following the revolution in 2011. It functions as a social hub, supporting the families of those killed by Turkish, Syrian or IS forces. Soldiers from the SDF at a military base in Deir Ezzor province. Posters of the Kurdish ideological leader, Abdullah Öcalan and other prominent figures, adorn the walls. Following threats of an invasion by Turkey, some forces were redeployed from the fight against IS to the 500-kilometer (310 miles) long Turkish border. Men at a Kebab shop in Kobani cautiously welcome the news that US forces will stay in Syria for the time being. The comments by US National Security Adviser John Bolton appeared to put the brakes on a withdrawal abruptly announced by Donald Trump last month and initially expected to be completed within weeks. Demonstrators in Kobani, made up mostly of schoolchildren, protest against the Turkish shelling of Kurdish villages in November. Youths in Kobani make their way back from the funeral of a Kurdish fighter. Kurdish residents fear that another military onslaught is imminent. Author: Benas Gerdziunas (Kobani) Putin praised Iranian efforts, saying that Moscow and Tehran managed to do "quite a lot to neutralize pockets of terrorist resistance and to create an effective, we could already say a working, system of political regulation." The Russian president also said his country was working to keep the 2015 nuclear deal with Iran afloat. "There is no reasonable alternative to this," Putin said. Separately, Rouhani praised his country’s ties with Russia, saying they spanned beyond economy and included cooperation "in areas of defense, and of nuclear [technology]." Putin offers Russian weapons to Riyadh The Kremlin chief said he and his colleagues did not discuss the recent attack on Saudi oil infrastructure. At the same time, he suggested Riyadh should make a "wise" decision to buy high-tech Russian defensive weapons. "We are ready to provide the adequate help to Saudi Arabia, and it would be enough for its leadership to make a wise decision, just like the Iranian leadership has done at one point, to buy S-300, and like the President Erdogan has done, buying the latest AA system S-400 'Triumf' from Russia." Putin said. dj/rt (dpa, AFP, Interfax) Every evening, DW sends out a selection of the day's news and features. Sign up here.