Interior ministers from Germany, France, Italy and Malta have reached agreement on a redistribution mechanism for migrants rescued in the Mediterranean, German Interior Minister Horst Seehofer said on Monday. "We have come up with regulations for a temporary emergency mechanism ... that will help Italy and Malta," Seehofer said after a meeting in the Maltese town of Vittoriosa. Specific details of the agreement were not given. But Italian Interior Minister Luciana Lamorgese said a part of the plan was to have rescued migrants sent to various EU states within four weeks of being taken to shore. Ministers met in Malta, a frequent destination for migrants bound for Europe Squabbling between EU states The meeting comes as the European Union is riven by internal squabbling over who should take in migrants saved at sea. Italy and Malta have recently been closing their ports to vessels that have rescued migrants who have got into distress at sea trying to cross the Mediterranean to reach Europe. Both countries have insisted that the migrants can only disembark when other EU states agree to take them in, which has often triggered a lengthy negotiation period that has left the migrants stranded at sea, sometimes for weeks. Seehofer said the exact quotas for each country would have to be discussed at a meeting of EU interior ministers on October 8. He has previously said Germany would take in 25% of migrants rescued off Italian territory. Send  Facebook   Twitter   google+   Whatsapp   Tumblr   linkedin   stumble   Digg   reddit   Newsvine Permalink https://p.dw.com/p/3Q4si Italy and Malta, along with Greece and Spain, have been the main destinations for migrants seeking a new life in Europe owing to their location on the Mediterranean. The current "Dublin regulation" governing who takes in such migrants is seen by many as placing an unfair burden on those countries. The meeting was also attended by Finnish Interior Minister Maria Ohisalo, who represented the EU presidency, and EU Migration Commissioner Dimitris Avramopoulos. Send  Facebook   Twitter   google+   Whatsapp   Tumblr   linkedin   stumble   Digg   reddit   Newsvine Permalink https://p.dw.com/p/3NYfJ tj/rc (AFP, dpa) Each evening at 1830 UTC, DW's editors send out a selection of the day's hard news and quality feature journalism. You can sign up to receive it directly here.