Voters in Afghanistan who were consumed by fear on the eve of the election must have rubbed their eyes in astonishment on Saturday. Despite the Taliban's warlike threats in the run-up that they would prevent the election with attacks and bombings, their promised firestorm — to everyone's surprise — did not take place. It's true, there were several attacks, including some in the big cities. However, the majority of them failed, and on balance, as far as we know at present — with five dead, a few dozen wounded — things were actually much quieter than on the many other days when no such important event is taking place. Such comparisons may seem cynical, but there are often many more victims to mourn. Two clear winners And so, long before all the votes are counted — a process that, judging by previous experience, will take weeks — it seems there are already two winners in this election: Afghan voters, who literally defied death in going to the polls, and the Afghan security services, who made it possible for this election to be held at all. Often berated for lacking training, being poorly equipped and having lax morals, the security services have clearly succeeded in maintaining calm, generally speaking, especially in the metropolitan centers like Kabul, or Mazar-e-Sharif in the north. Send  Facebook   Twitter   google+   Whatsapp   Tumblr   linkedin   stumble   Digg   reddit   Newsvine Permalink https://p.dw.com/p/3QPqN So has the Taliban's fighting power actually been overestimated? If the army and the police act with sufficient unity and coordination, are they in fact a match for the Islamic insurgents? This would be a game changer in the peace negotiations with the United States that will have to be resumed sooner or later. Until now, the Taliban have always acted as if their supremacy over the whole of Afghanistan were merely a matter of time. Read more: Why did President Donald Trump call off Taliban talks? Victory for civil courage A success, then, for the security forces — albeit with some limitations. There were, of course, no polling stations at all in Taliban-controlled regions. But where it was possible to vote, Afghans did so — in spite of all the threats, and all the frustration of rigged elections in the past. News feeds and social media were full of pictures, of young people in particular. Videos showed them standing in line outside the polling stations. Their principal complaints were about administrative shortcomings; for them, the Taliban weren't really an issue. In any case, those who were afraid stayed home — and there were certainly considerably more of these than in previous elections. But, let's face it: How high would voter turnout be in well-established European democracies if voting booths were threatened by attacks like these? Why is Germany putting an Afghan man on trial for war crimes? Send  Facebook   Twitter   google+   Whatsapp   Tumblr   linkedin   stumble   Digg   reddit   Newsvine Permalink https://p.dw.com/p/3QOhS Taking the will of the electorate seriously Regardless of how high the turnout actually was this time, Afghan politicians should take their responsibilities especially seriously, given the civil courage displayed by the people who voted for them. What an insult it would be if the coming weeks were to be dominated once again — as in previous elections — by presidential candidates squabbling about real or alleged fraud. And if, once again, it takes months to form a government, a period in which the Taliban would have free rein to extend their power base. Politicians would be playing a reckless game with the future of the country. Unfortunately, previous elections have shown that, until now, the rival parties have cared little about this. This has to change. Because this election must make one thing clear, to politicians in Afghanistan and around the world: There is a will for democratic self-determination in Afghanistan, even with the threat of the Taliban. Repeated attacks in Afghanistan in 2018 and 2019 have killed and wounded hundreds of innocent Afghans, and shown the world the fragile and worsening state of security in the conflict-stricken country. The incidents have plunged war-weary Afghan citizens into a state of despair and highlighted the limitations faced by the government in Kabul in ensuring public security. The violent incidents have made Afghanistan once again a staple of international headlines. Outfits like the Taliban and the "Islamic State" (IS) have claimed responsibility for the attacks. The Afghan government is under heavy pressure to restore security and take back territory controlled by a number of insurgent groups, including the Taliban and IS. In 2018, the Taliban announced the start of their annual spring offensive, dismissing an offer of peace talks by President Ashraf Ghani. The militants, fighting to restore their version of strict Islamic law to Afghanistan, said their campaign was a response to a more aggressive US military strategy adopted in 2017, which aims to force the militants into peace talks. US President Donald Trump unveiled a new strategy for Afghanistan in 2017, vowing to deploy more troops to train and advise Afghan security forces. Trump also pledged to support Afghan troops in their war against the Taliban and maintain US presence in the country for as long as there was a need for it. In 2019, he reversed course and promised a troop pullout. Despite President Ghani's offer in February 2018 for peace talks "without preconditions," the Taliban had until 2019 shown no interest, dismissing the peace overtures as a "conspiracy." Pakistan has been under pressure from Kabul and Washington to stop offering safe havens to militants blamed for attacks in Afghanistan, a charge Islamabad denies and insists that its influence over the insurgents has been exaggerated. Kabul and Islamabad regularly trade accusations of harboring the other country's militants and the harsh language has underscored the strains between them. Apart from the Taliban, Afghan warlords exercise massive influence in the country. Last year, Hizb-i-Islami leader Gulbuddin Hekmatyar returned to Kabul after a 20-year exile to play an active role in Afghan politics. In September 2016, the Afghan government signed a deal with Hekmatyar in the hope that other warlords and militant groups would seek better ties with Kabul. In the midst of an endless battle for power, President Ghani's approval ratings continue to plummet. Rampant corruption in the Afghan government and a long tug-of-war within the US-brokered national unity government has had a negative impact on the government's efforts to eradicate terrorism. Author: Shamil Shams Every day, DW's editors send out a selection of the day's hard news and quality feature journalism. Sign up for the newsletter here.