For his new single released on September 13, Rammstein singer Till Lindemann repeated the strategy employed by his band a few months ago by posting a 30-second teaser to his new single two days ahead of its release. "Steh auf" (Stand up) however didn't grab the same kind of media attention as the teaser to "Deutschland," which caused controversy for featuring the musicians dressed up as concentration camp prisoners. The new video shows an emotional Lindemann and his musicians performing in an empty ballroom; they suddenly appear in a red seclusion room, crazy-looking and all dressed in white. After a face-off, Lindemann is thrown into a glass basin filled with water, where he drowns. Cut to scenes of medieval torture, with a victim being dragged by a galloping horse, and you get an idea of the type of violence that makes up the clip. Read more:  Rammstein: Sons of East German punk Lindemann's previous release as solo artist was in 2015 For the album, which was completed in August, the 56-year-old has reunited with Swedish music producer Peter Tägtgren. In 2015, the two musicians brought out the album Skills in Pills under the name Lindemann. It reached the top of album charts in Germany. The album's release date has not yet been revealed. Supporting equal rights through provocation Till Lindemann and his Rammstein bandmates justcompleted their European stadium tour  a few weeks ago, making headlines several times throughout the tour. In Moscow, for example, guitarists Richard Kruspe and Paul Landers kissed onstage in support of LGBTQ rights; Russia is renowned for its homophobic laws. They also demonstrated their commitment to the gay and lesbian movement by waving a rainbow flag in Poland. Rammstein is planning another European tour for 2020; it is already nearly sold out. Knowing no taboos, Rammstein have managed to infuse their performances with humanity's darkest nightmares. It's all about violence and murderous fantasies, cannibalism and various unthinkable acts of horror. They delight in crossing the line, and their provocations are celebrated by a legion of fans. Rammstein is one-of-a-kind — and the band members are worldwide stars. Come from East Berlin and Schwerin, the members first performed in seminal acts within the East German underground punk scene. Guitarist Paul Landers and keyboardist Flake Lorenz played in Feeling B; singer Till Lindemann was with First Arsch, bassist Oliver Riedel with The Inchtabokatables, guitarist Richard Kruspe in Orgasm Death Gimmick, and drummer Christoph Schneider in Die Firma. They actually look like nice guys. This photo was taken in 1995 when the band was one year old. "Herzeleid" (Heartbreak), the first LP, had gruesome texts on issues like child abuse in "Weisses Fleisch" (White Flesh), and necrophilia in "Heirate mich" (Marry Me). All that to harsh guitar riffs, merciless percussion and an edgy electro sound. It reached No. 6 in the German album charts. "Engel" (Angel) in 1997 was the breakthrough. Given much airtime on the MTV and Viva music channels, it was inspired by Quentin Tarantino's film "From Dusk Till Dawn." The second album, "Sehnsucht" (Longing), went platinum both in Germany and in the US. Rammstein's contribution to the soundtrack of David Lynch's film "Lost Highway" kickstarted their career in the US. Aren't they sweet? The surf boys pose on the Californian beach with pretty bikini-clad girls and sing about the foreigner that is unwelcome. The happy images collide with the hard, rapid industrial beat. When "Mein Land" (My Country, 2011) comes to an end, the candy-colored beach party is over, and it's back to familiar Rammstein imagery with fire and scowling faces. In a crossover phase, German folk music star Heino covered well-known rock and pop songs, including Rammstein's "Sonne" (Sun). In 2013, the group invited Heino to join them onstage at Wacken Open Air. Facing 75,000 metal fans and flanked by flames and smoke, Heino sang together with Rammstein — looking slightly startled. The periodical "Metal-Hammer" tweeted: "Did Heino know where he'd landed?" The film of the Rammstein concert in New York's Madison Square Garden, and the documentary "Rammstein in Amerika," premiered in movie theaters on September 24, 2015. The DVD climbed to No. 1 in the DVD charts in 13 countries. Rammstein has conquered four of the world's five biggest music markets: the US, Great Britain, France and Germany. Rammstein lead singer Till Lindemann likes to shock with his outre makeup. But under the wild man exterior, Till's a sensitive, contemplative soul who published a collection of poetry titled "Messer" (Knife) in 2002. Meanwhile, the 56-year-old got his buff physique from high-performance swimming. And what about his love of fire? Lindemann took a course in pyrotechnics in 1996. In 2015, Till Lindemann joined up with Swedish metal musician Peter Tägtgren in a side project called "Lindemann." The album "Skills in Pills" is gory and morbid, satisfying Rammstein fans who back then were waiting out the band's hiatus. When they go on tour now, we'll see how the musicians put their downtime to productive use. The Europe Stadium Tour 2019 starts May 27 at the Veltins Arena in the German city of Gelsenkirchen. The band then goes on to Barcelona, Bern, Munich, Dresden, Copenhagen, Berlin, Rotterdam, Paris, Brussels, Frankfurt, Prague, Luxembourg, Moscow, St. Petersburg, Stockholm, Oslo and other cities, ending in Vienna on August 22. Of the 30 performances, all but five are sold out. Author: Silke Wünsch (rf)