Israeli voters on Tuesday cast their ballots in Israel's second election in five months. Initial exit polls projected the result was too close to call. The repeat poll was expected to be a closely contested race between Netanyahu's right-wing Likud party and the centrist Blue and White party, led by ex-military chief Benny Gantz. Both Netanyahu and Gantz's parties will fall well short of the 61 seats they need for a majority in the Knesset. It's even possible that neither side can reach the hurdle with the support of their allies, and that they may have to seek to govern together. Three TV exit polls, whose reputations for accuracy in Israel are not watertight, all forecast that both Netanyahu and Gantz's parties would secure just over 30 seats each. Tuesday's poll had to be called after Netanyahu failed to form a coalition after an election on April 9 during six weeks of difficult negotiations. Read more: Jordan Valley settlement officially approved by Israeli lawmakers Corruption charges "We will succeed in bringing hope. We will succeed in bringing change, without corruption and without extremism, all together," Gantz said after voting near Tel Aviv. Netanyahu is facing allegations of corruption and a likely indictment in the coming months. The charges reportedly include bribery, fraud and breach of trust. During his election campaign, and during last-minute election-day appeals to voters to go to the polls, Netanyahu portrayed himself as the experienced candidate with existing working relationships with other world leaders. Read more: Will election-weary Israelis end Benjamin Netanyahu's rule? On May 14, 1948, David Ben-Gurion, future first prime minister of Israel, declares the state's independence, outlining the Jewish story: "The people kept faith with (the land) throughout their dispersion and never ceased to pray and hope for their return to it and for the restoration in it of their political freedom." It was the birth of an internationally recognized Jewish homeland. While the controversial idea of a God-given land for Jews has biblical roots, the Holocaust was a close, powerful backdrop for the significance of Israel's founding. Nazi Germany murdered six million Jews across Europe, and those who survived the concentration camps endured expulsion and forced labor. The above photo shows survivors of the Auschwitz camp following liberation. That is the word that Palestinians and their supporters use to mark Israel's independence. About 700,000 Arabs living in Palestine at the time fled as waves of Jewish immigrants arrived to settle in the new Jewish state. The birth of Israel was the start of the Israeli-Palestinian conflict, which remains unresolved 70 years later despite numerous attempts. These land collectives, known as kibbutzim in the plural, were established across Israel following independence. Many were run by secular or socialist Jews in an effort to realize their vision of society. Tensions with its Arab neighbors erupted in the Six-Day War in June 1967. With a surprise attack, Israel is able to swiftly defeat Egypt, Jordan and Syria, bringing the Arab-populated areas of the Sinai Peninsula, the Gaza Strip, the West Bank, East Jerusalem and the Golan Heights under Israeli control. Victory leads to occupation — and more tension and conflict. Israel's settlement policy worsens the conflict with Palestinians. Due to development and expansion of Jewish areas on occupied Palestinian land, the Palestinian Authority accuses Israel of making a future Palestinian state untenable. Israel has largely ignored the international community's criticism of its settlement policy, arguing new construction is either legal or necessary for security. In winter 1987, Palestinians begin mass protests of Israel's ongoing occupation. Unrest spreads from Gaza to East Jerusalem and the West Bank. The uprising eventually wound down and led to the 1993 Oslo Accords — the first face-to-face agreement between the government of Israel and the Palestine Liberation Organization (PLO), the representative body of the Palestinian people. With former US President Bill Clinton as a mediator, Israeli Prime Minister Yitzhak Rabin (left) and PLO Chairman Yasser Arafat hold peace talks. The result, the Oslo I Accord, is each side's recognition of the other. The agreement leads many to hope that an end to the Israel-Palestine conflict is not far off, but peace initiatives suffer a major setback when Rabin is assassinated two years later. A right-wing Jewish fanatic shoots and kills Rabin on November 4, 1995, while he is leaving a peace rally in Tel Aviv. Rabin's assassination throws the spotlight on Israel's internal social strife. The divide is growing between centrist and extremist, secular and religious. The photo shows Israel's then-acting prime minister, Shimon Peres, next to the empty chair of his murdered colleague. Nazi Germany's mass murder of Jews weighs on German-Israeli relations to this day. In February 2000, Germany's then-President Johannes Rau addresses the Knesset, Israel's parliament, in German. It is a tremendous emotional challenge for both sides, especially for Holocaust survivors and their descendants, but also a step towards closer relations after unforgettable crimes. In 2002, amid the violence and terror of the Second Intifada, Israel starts building a 107-kilometer-long (67-mile-long) barrier of barbed wire, concrete wall and guard towers between itself and Palestinian areas of the West Bank. It suppresses the violence but does not solve the larger political conflict. The wall grows in length over the years and is projected to reach around 700 kilometers. Germany's current foreign minister, Heiko Maas, steps decisively into an ever closer German-Israeli relationship. His first trip abroad as the country's top diplomat is to Israel in March 2018. At the Yad Vashem Holocaust memorial and museum in Jerusalem, he lays a wreath in memory of Holocaust victims. Author: Kersten Knipp  Some 6.4 million people were eligible to vote. During the course of voting, Israel's Central Elections Committee twice said that turnout was on track to be slightly higher than in April. Official results are not expected until Wednesday. kw/XX (AP, dpa, Reuters) DW sends out a daily selection of the day's news and features. Sign up here.