Marc-Andre ter Stegen arrived back in his native Germany on Tuesday night determined to let his football do the talking. In the second half of an absorbing contest, the 27-year-old was on hand to deny Dortmund captain Marco Reus on multiple occasions — including from the penalty spot — as Barcelona came away from a raucous Westfalenstadion with a point. For ter Stegen, it was the perfect response after another frustrating international break and a long-distance exchange of words with goalkeeping colleague Manuel Neuer, who was once again given the nod by Joachim Löw for Germany's recent games against the Netherlands and Northern Ireland. "It's not easy to find an explanation,” he said at a promotional event in Barcelona upon his return from Belfast, where he had spent another 90 minutes on the bench. "I do my best in every single game in order to make the decision more difficult, but this international break was a heavy blow.” His rival, Neuer, after impressing in Bayern Munich's Bundesliga draw with RB Leipzig at the weekend, then questioned whether ter Stegen's remarks were "conducive” to squad harmony, comments which the Barcelona stopper labelled "unnecessary.” "I don't think ‘Manu' needs to discuss my feelings,” he said ahead of his team's Champions League Group F opener in Dortmund. "You can't call for competition and then expect that players who don't play are just going to be happy about the situation. When you think about the last few years, you can see how I've always behaved.” Proving a point And if ter Stegen was looking to prove a point upon his return to Germany, he left no doubt as to his qualities in a second half in which Barcelona had their backs against the Yellow Wall. "Our entire life! Our complete pride!” roared the massed ranks on the famous terrace as their team forced a series of quick corners right in front of them. And Barca finally cracked, Nelson Semedo bringing down Jadon Sancho in the box. Reus stepped up, placed the ball on the spot, and shot hard and low to ter Stegen's left. But the Germany number two was equal to it, parrying the ball away with a strong left arm. "Reus is hard to read,” ter Stegen told Spanish reporters post-match in a chaotic mixed zone. "But I went left because I had a good feeling about it.” Reus will have known all about his compatriot's reputation for saving penalties from their time at Borussia Mönchengladbach together, and ter Stegen has now saved four of the six penalties he has faced in the Champions League. He's in the form of his life, and his frustration at being overlooked in the Germany team is more than understandable. He proved himself to be a more than adequate replacement when Neuer was out injured in the build-up to the 2018 World Cup, only for the Bayern Munich man to reclaim his place between the posts during the debacle in Russia. Message received Now, after a verbal spat with Neuer pre-match, ter Stegen was just beginning a sporting battle with Reus. Following his missed penalty, the Dortmund forward saw a long-range effort deflected wide before inexplicably firing over from close range after more good work from Sancho. When he finally hit the target from close range, ter Stegen made himself big to block both Reus' first shot and the rebound, keeping the Catalans in the game by himself – although he was well beaten when Julian Brandt's strike pounded back off his crossbar. "They had some very clear chances and played really well,” admitted the man-of-the-match. "I am happy that we've been able take a point away from here but we know we have aspects to improve." Nevertheless, he was rightly pleased with his own performance. "Everyone knows what I'm capable of,” he concluded. "I always want to be 100 per cent at my best and today was a good chance to prove it.” Marco Reus and Borussia Dortmund received that message loud and clear on Tuesday night. And so, maybe, did Manuel Neuer and Joachim Löw. In 1995, AC Milan were the dominant team in Europe. Their title defense against a youthful Ajax should have beenroutine, but the Dutch side (average age just over 23) surprised the Italian side and won it all. The face of the story: A 18-year-old Patrick Kluivert who scored the winner five minutes from time. Even making the final was a sensational achievement for BVB, but the club went one better by winning the final. Against Juventus, the underdogs led 2-0 at the break thanks to two goals by Karl-Heinz Riedle. Alessandro Del Pierro's goal after the hour mark gave Juve hope but only for seven minutes. Lars Ricken scored a brilliant lob with his first touch in a memorable moment of a special final. Shortly before kickoff for the semifinal between Real Madrid and Borussia Dortmund, one of the goals fell apart when a fence, one that fans had climbed onto, broke – taking the goal with it. A good 76 minutes later, a replacement arrived. It remains one of the most curious moments in the competition's history. Bayern Munich already had one hand on the champagne. Mario Basler's early goal looked enough to beat Manchester United, but then football sprinkled some magic. In the 91st minute, Teddy Sheringham scored from a corner. Then two minutes later, Ole Gunnar Solksjaer added a second to secure an incredible comeback and leave Bayern stunned –even to this day. Wait a minute! That's not a starting 11! Who's the 12th man? It's Manchester United fan Karl Power (top row, left), who somehow outfoxed security at Munich’s Olympic Stadium for his team’s quarterfinal second leg against Bayern. Captain Roy Keane (top row, right) seems to have been the first to catch on to the fact that something is amiss. The 2004 final was another one for the history books, with Porto and Monaco making up a final of underdogs. Porto secured a clear 3-0 win, completing one of the biggest coups the Champions League has seen. It also markedthe birth of a superstar, as just days later Porto head coach Jose Mourinho moved on to Chelsea where he announced himself as the "Special One." In the 2005 final, AC Milan were leading 3-0 after 44 minutes. A win looked certain, but Liverpool came back. Steven Gerrard scored, then Vladimir Smicer added a second. After Xabi Alonso put in his penalty rebound, Liverpool were on the home straight. The incredible comeback win was secured after a penalty shootout in one of the most dramatic finishes the Champions League has ever produced. Manuel Neuer likes to get involved in the outfield play, but in 2011, he was left looking silly. In the quarterfinals Neuer, then at Schalke, cut off an early Inter Milan attack by leaving his area to head the ball away from an approaching striker. However, his clearance landed right at the feet of Dejan Stankovic, who volleyed the ball straight back into Schalke's goal from 50 meters. Bayern Munich were seen as the favorites in their final at home to Chelsea in the Allianz Arena. Thomas Müller looked to have won it with five minutes to go, but then Didier Drogba powered in a header to equalize. Arjen Robben missed a penalty in extra time and in the shootout, Ivica Olic and Bastian Schweinsteiger both missed. The home finale turned out to be another traumatic moment for Bayern. Lionel Messi has left many players in his dust over the years, but in 2012 he was a nightmare for Bayer Leverkusen. The Argentine scored five against an overwhelmed Bundesliga side, defeating them on his own. At the end of the night, Barcelona ran out 7-1 victors in one of the highest-scoring games in the tournament's history. Bayern Munich were the favorites going into their final at home to Chelsea in the Allianz Arena. Thomas Müller looked to have won it with five minutes to go, but then Didier Drogba powered in a header to equalize. Arjen Robben missed a penalty in extra time and in the shootout, Ivica Olic and Bastian Schweinsteiger both missed. The home finale turned out to be another traumatic moment for Bayern. Borussia Dortmund's Robert Lewandowski shows how many goals he scored against Real Madrid in a memorable home semifinal against Real Madrid in the 2012-13 season. BVB won 4-1 and secured a spot in the final despite a 2-0 loss in Spain. The final ended in defeat to Bayern, but Lewandowski's semifinal performance was one for the ages. Barcelona's exit looked confirmed after a 4-0 loss away in Paris, but in the second leg produced a spectacle. Edinson Cavani's goal just after the hour mark seemed to stop Barca's comeback in its tracks. Barca, 3-1 up, needed three more goals. Then Neymar scored a brace and in the 95th minute Sergi Roberto scored the winner in one of the most incredible comebacks in football history. Author: David Vorholt