Ask a physicist "what's a synchrotron?" ... and they'll call it a huge light bulb. Synchrotrons let scientists see the smallest things — from material details in the Dead Sea Scrolls to living matter, water purity, disease, and universe-defining particles. They accelerate light via a slalom of mirrors and magnets, and when it's fast enough, it gets shot out along a beamline that's hooked up to a powerful microscope. It's basically the best camera you ever had. To the power of a squillion. There are synchrotrons around the world, with many in Europe and the USA, others in Asia-Pacific. But there's only one in the whole of the Middle East. It's called the Synchrotron-Light for Experimental Science and Applications in the Middle East (or SESAME for short), and it's shining an intense light on the science than can and cannot be done amidst the politics of that region. Science, and a dream of peace After decades of dreaming, planning and building, the SESAME synchrotron in Allan, north of the Jordanian capital Amman, has recently started delivering scientific results. Send  Facebook   Twitter   google+   Whatsapp   Tumblr   linkedin   stumble   Digg   reddit   Newsvine Permalink https://p.dw.com/p/2e3DC It's doing what it set out to do — to attract scientists from around the region, whether they are from Israel, Jordan or Egypt, and to have them work together on quasi-neutral ground on science. And, ultimately, on peace. Member states include Cyprus, Egypt, Iran, Israel, Jordan, Pakistan, the Palestinian Authority and Turkey. Observer countries are Brazil, China, France, Germany, Greece, Italy, Japan, Kuwait, Portugal, Russia, Spain, Sweden, Switzerland, the UK and the USA. A majority of scientific researchers at Palestinian universities are women Read more: Scientists identify woman behind repainted Degas portrait For those scientists working in the region, it's just incredibly practical to have a synchrotron on your door step, as traveling long distances with fragile archeological samples can be a hair-raising ordeal. With SESAME, you could theoretically jump in a car at dawn, do your "beamtime," and be back home in time for your dinner — the operative word being "theoretically," because Jordanian customs is on a whole other level of odd. But theoretically… SESAME is a stone's throw away for scientists in the Middle East. Then there's a wall, dividing people, politics, science, society (from the Israeli wall in Bethlehem). Unless you're Palestinian. No collaboration under occupation If you're a Palestinian scientist from Bethlehem, Nablus or any other part of Israel under Palestinian authority, and you're driving with Palestinian plates, a simple commute can turn into days. Roads close inexplicably from one minute to the next. You get held up at checkpoints or sent on a detour around three hills... when yesterday you took a five-minute short cut. Read more: The West Bank and the Jordan Valley explained Or you may not get invited in the first place. If SESAME's scientific committee deems your proposal too weak. And with some Palestinian scientists coming from very weak universities that rely on 1950s equipment donated by the UK, getting rejected is a strong possibility. It's a practical impediment all right. To date, no proposals from Palestinian researchers have been awarded anybeamtime. SESAME's scientific director, Giorgio Paolucci, next to equipment donated by Germany's defunct BESSY I synchrotron Then there's the political. Scientists from the Weizmann Institute, the Hebrew University and others from Tel Aviv University say they are keen on collaboration. But in Palestine, there's one line that rings out often: "No collaboration under occupation." When you hear that for the first time, it's like a mallet to the head. There's silence. (Interrupted by Israeli fighter jets overhead.) And a sense of dumbfounded... well, dumbness. Then, an "Oh. My. God." Before those journalistic instincts kick in and you hear yourself blurting, "But surely…! But... erm…" So they repeat the line: "No collaboration under occupation," and you're out. The situation is so sensitive, we can't even tell you who said it first. Others said it too; and we'll quote them, but later, as this diary progresses. The macadam road surface near Nablus in Palestine just stops — an almost invisible border between peace and instability Seen (or heard) through the prism of common media coverage, you might think, "Oh, yeah, like, that makes sense. I mean, these are oppressed people, right? I get it." And inside you let out a little cry of "Freedom!" But upfront, in your face, staring into the eyes of Palestinian physicists, trained in France or the USA, now home as heads of department… and it's a different feeling altogether. It's real. And confusing. No standard model SESAME is modeled on CERN, one of Europe's post-war peace projects. The idea there was to provide a neutral place for scientists to collaborate. CERN's canteen is renowned as a hub of cross-cultural interaction. And their science is top-notch. CERN detected the "elusive" Higgs boson — or God particle — in 2012. You could also say CERN is SESAME's mentor. But the Middle East is not Europe. In July, CERN organized a field trip for a group of science journalists from Europe and the USA, including this writer. We visited scientists in Jerusalem, Bethlehem and Nablus before stopping at SESAME. DW reporter Zulfikar Abbany at the SESAME synchrotron in Jordan... trying not to fall while taking a photo And some of the most enlightening moments were those that had very little to do with science, but things like farming, family life or standing on a road where the macadam just stops and that's a border between tolerance and a precarious kind of peace. It was a week in the Middle East and we barely started to scratch the surface of why SESAME is such an ambitious project and why it has yet to succeed. This is just the beginning. Check back for more from Zulfikar Abbany's SESAME diary. United Nations Security Council Resolution 242, passed on November 22, 1967, called for the exchange of land for peace. Since then, many of the attempts to establish peace in the region have referred to 242. The resolution was written in accordance with Chapter VI of the UN Charter, under which resolutions are recommendations, not orders. A coalition of Arab states, led by Egypt and Syria, fought Israel in the Yom Kippur or October War in October 1973. The conflict eventually led to the secret peace talks that yielded two agreements after 12 days. This picture from March 26, 1979, shows Egyptian President Anwar Sadat, his US counterpart Jimmy Carter and Israeli Prime Minister Menachem Begin after signing the accords in Washington. The US and the former Soviet Union came together to organize a conference in the Spanish capital city of Madrid. The discussions involved Israel, Jordan, Lebanon, Syria, and Palestinians — not from the Palestinian Liberation Organization (PLO) — who met with Israeli negotiators for the first time. While the conference achieved little, it did create the framework for later, more productive talks. The negotiations in Norway between Israel and the PLO, the first direct meeting between the two parties, resulted in the the Oslo I Accord. The agreement was signed in the US in September 1993. It demanded that Israeli troops withdraw from West Bank and Gaza and a self-governing, interim Palestinian authority be set up for a five-year transitional period. A second accord was signed in 1995. US President Bill Clinton invited Israeli Prime Minister Ehud Barak and PLO Chairman Yasser Arafat to the retreat in July 2000 to discuss borders, security, settlements, refugees and Jerusalem. Despite the negotiations being more detailed than ever before, no agreement was concluded. The failure to reach a consensus at Camp David was followed by renewed Palestinian uprising, the Second Intifada. The Camp David negotiations were followed first by meetings in Washington and then in Cairo and Taba, Egypt — all without results. Later the Arab League proposed the Arab Peace Initiative in Beirut in March 2002. The plan called on Israel to withdraw to pre-1967 borders so that a Palestinian state could be set up in the West Bank and Gaza. In return, Arab countries would agree to recognize Israel. The US, EU, Russia and the UN worked together as the Middle East Quartet to develop a road map to peace. While Palestinian Prime Minister Mahmoud Abbas accepted the text, his Israeli counterpart Ariel Sharon had more reservations with the wording. The timetable called for a final agreement on a two-state solution to be reached in 2005. Unfortunately, it was never implemented. In 2007 US President George W. Bush hosted a conference in Annapolis, Maryland, to relaunch the peace process. Israeli Prime Minister Ehud Olmert and Palestinian Authority President Mahmoud Abbas took part in talks with officials from the Quartet and over a dozen Arab states. It was agreed that further negotiations would be held with the goal of reaching a peace deal by the end of 2008. In 2010, US Middle East Envoy George Mitchell convinced Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu to agree to and implement a ten-month moratorium on settlements in disputed territories. Later, Netanyahu and Abbas agreed to relaunch direct negotiations to resolve all issues. Negotiations began in Washington in September 2010, but within weeks there was a deadlock. A new round of violence broke out in and around Gaza late 2012. A ceasefire was reached between Israel and those in power in the Gaza Strip, which held until June 2014. The kidnapping and murder of three Israeli teenagers in June 2014 resulted in renewed violence and eventually led to the Israeli military operation Protective Edge. It ended with a ceasefire on August 26, 2014. Envoys from over 70 countries gathered in Paris, France, to discuss the conflict between Israelis and Palestinians. Netanyahu slammed the discussions as "rigged" against his country. Neither Israeli nor Palestinian representatives attended the summit. "A two-state solution is the only possible one," French Foreign Minister Jean-Marc Ayrault said at the opening of the event. Despite the year's optimistic opening, 2017 brought further stagnation in the Israeli-Palestinian peace process. A deadly summer attack on Israeli police at the Temple Mount, a site holy to both Jews and Muslims, sparked deadly clashes. Then US President Donald Trump's plan to move the embassy to Jerusalem prompted Palestinian leader Abbas to say "the measures ... undermine all peace efforts." Author: Aasim Saleem