Good week for: Amine Harit, Philippe Coutinho, Hertha Berlin, Robert Lewandowski Bad week for: Newly-promoted sides, Werder Bremen, Lucien Favre The lowdown: — Philippe Coutinho scored his first goal for Bayern in a comfortable 4-0 home win against Cologne. Despite being on a hat trick, Robert Lewandowski let the Brazilian take the spot kick. His first effort was a nervous one, down the middle, but he had a chance to improve when the referee ordered a retake because of encroachment in the box. The second spot kick was much better, curled into the top left corner. This was an afternoon stroll for Bayern, who got the win they needed just before their Oktoberfest visit. Cheers indeed. — Borussia Dortmund and the question of mentality. Marco Reus thought it was "s***" to be asked about it after Dortmund scored a late own goal to draw a game in Frankfurt that they should have won. Poor mental strength, bad defending, or just a lack of quality - whatever it is, Dortmund have already dropped points twice this season. Not great news for Favre, Reus and co. — Amine Harit proved the difference on Friday night, assisting one and scoring a sensational outside-of-the-boot winner in the last minute to quietly push Schalke into the top four. It might be early in the season, but Harit's return to form (something he attributes to increased confidence from Wagner and an increased sense of responsibility after becoming a father recently) is promising for Schalke. Visitors Mainz were hard done by not to get a point, but they ended up sending the far bigger message on the day anyway by support "Fridays For Future". — Hertha's 2-1 win against Paderborn was as close as the score suggested, but it does mean that the newly-promoted side are now the only winless team in the league. It also opens things up in the bottom half of the table, where Mainz and Cologne are now separated from Hertha, Union, Hoffenheim and Düsseldorf by just one point. — Julian Nagelsmann has made quite the start to life at RB Leipzig. Granted, it's still very early in the season but just days after sealing his first European win he guided his side to a comfortable 3-0 away win in Bremen. RB Leipzig sit two points clear at the top of the table, with 13 points from five games, having scored 12 and conceded just three. A message has been sent: Nagelsmann means business. The quotes: "I have to put the work in now and make sure the food is on the table at home." Amine Harit being asked about the impact becoming a father has had on his game "It was a spontaneous decision to let him [Coutinho] take the penalty and score his first goal at home as it's important for his self-confidence." Robert Lewandowski on not taking the penalty when on a hat trick "I remember other times, so it's ncie when you win at Oktoberfest time." Bayern captain Manuel Neuer on Bayern's win during the beer festival start "You're getting on last my nerves with this whole mentality s***. Today? The equalizer was a mentality issue? You can't be serious. It has nothing to do with mentality. It has to do with the right defensive cohesion." Marco Reus after Dortmund's 2-2 draw "We don't always have to pass the ball into the goal. As a player, you hear shouts of 'shoot!' from the stands. Maybe we should let fly more often." Leverkusen's Kevin Volland "I saw a goal and I was happy. Then I saw: no goal and that was s***." Hertha's Davie Selke after having a goal ruled out due to offside "But we are not Bayern Munich." Leipzig's Marcel Sabitzer when asked about a title race between Bayern and Leipzig The stats: — Lars Bender made his 300 appearance in all competitions for Leverkusen. A club legend if ever there was one. — Robert Lewandowski equaled Carsten Jancker's Bundesliga record of scoring at least one goal in each of the first five games. He has 9 goals after 5 games, which is the first time that's happened since Peter Meyer (Gladbach) in 1967. This is Lewandowski's best ever start to a season. He has 202 in 250 for Bayern. Blimey. — RB Leipzig have not lost any of their 7 games under Julian Nagelsmann, and have won 6 wins in that time. — For the first time ever, Gladbach haven't scored in the first 45 minutes of their last seven home league games. —  For the first time in over two years (May 2017), Werder Bremen didn't score a goal in a Bundesliga home game. Given their injury list, it's perhaps not that surprising. The fans: A chilling moment on Friday night as Schalke's Veltins Arena went quiet with news filtering around the ground that a Royal Blues' fan had collapsed. The person in question was taken to the hospital, but as of yet there has been no word on their condition. Schalke CEO Jochen Schneider had praise for the reaction of both sets of fans: "The tact displayed by the supporters was very impressive." The weird: Sebastian Polter came on after 61 minutes for an Union Berlin side headed towards defeat away in Leverkusen. Five minutes later he was sent off after the VAR reviewed his yellow card. Polter dragged his boot down the heel of an opponent. A (short) day to forget for him, and a worrying outing for his team too. Wolfsburg passed up the chance to move level on points with Bayern Munich as they were held to a 1-1 draw for the third Bundesliga game running. Sebastian Rudy marked his 200th Bundesliga appearance for Hoffenheim with a stunning sixth-minute volley. A slick Wolves attack levelled the scores when Admir Mehmedi smashed home half an hour later, but neither side were able to produce a winner. BVB's inability to see out games continued to haunt them as Frankfurt sealed a late equalizer to deny the visitors the win. Witsel's neat finish from a Hazard cross was cancelled out just before the break by Andre Silva's first Frankfurt goal. Sancho thought he had won it for BVB with his rebound, but with two minutes left, Thomas Delaney sent a cross into his own net to seal Frankfurt's comeback. Gladbach's troubled week appeared to be getting worse after Kasim Adams headed Fortuna into the a first-half lead, but with time running out a brace from Marcus Thuram turned the game on its head and took some pressure off Marco Rose. The Italian-born Frenchman converted at the near post, before putting in a rebound after a frantic goalmouth scramble three minutes from time. RB Leipzig continued their unbeaten start to the season with victory over Werder Bremen. A goal in each half did the trick, with the visitors taking the lead through captain Willi Orban's header and then Marcel Sabitzer slammed in a superb free-kick. A harsh red card for Leipzig's Konrad Laimer for handball made the latter stages interesting, but Marcelo Saracchi added a third to put RB top. Philippe Coutinho scored his first goal in Bayern colors as they cruised to victory. Robert Lewandowski opened the scoring less than three minutes in and nodded a second soon after the break. Cologne's Kingsley Ehizibue was red-carded for a foul on Coutinho, who converted from the spot at the second time of asking. Another new recruit, Ivan Perisic, put the icing on the cake with a fine finish. Former Frieburger Florian Niederlechner salvaged a point for Augsburg, denying his former club top spot in the Bundesliga. Lucas Höler drilled in a low shot to put Freiburg ahead and, briefly, top of the Bundesliga, but Augsburg leveled before the break through Niederlechner, who slotted home after a nice move. Freiburg pushed for a winner but struck the woodwork twice in a hectic finale. Leverkusen made light work of Union to remain at the top end of the table. Kevin Volland opened the scoring with a thumping finish and Lucas Alario got on the scoresheet too, bending in a fine shot from outside the box. Union suffered another blow when striker Sebastian Polter was shown a straight red card, somewhat harshly, after he caught Julian Baumgartlinger three minutes after coming on. Hertha survived a late onslaught to get the better of Paderborn, who are the only Bundesliga side without a victory this season. Javairo Dilrosun opened the scoring for Hertha after a mazy run and finish. The Dutchman then turned provider for Marius Wolf, and the Dortmund loanee powered home a low shot. Ben Zolinski’s neat flick at the near post gave Paderborn hope, but Hertha held on for the win. A goal and an assist from Amine Harit proved the difference on Friday night. The 22-year-old Moroccan set up Suat Serdar with a superb pass in a game that took a while to get going. With Schalke on course for victory, Mainz grabbed a deserved equalizer thanks to sub Karim Onisiwo. In the final minute, Harit sent a curling effort into the far corner with the outside of his foot to seal the win. Author: Jonathan Harding, Michael Da Silva