+++ Please refresh (F5) for the latest +++ RB Leipzig vs. Bayern Munich (1830 CEST) — Perhaps some early season frustration from Niko Kovac. Before the game he appears a little frustrated with the line of questioning from Sky Sports, asking why the focus is so often a negative one. "Why not take a more positive look at it?" Kovac asks. Seems a fair question. Sky have a habit of pushing for something that isn't there. If he loses here today, he'll likely have to deal with a fair bit of negative questions. — TEAMS! Bayern make the decision to play Kimmich in midfield, with likely Pavard at right back. Müller gets the nod a day after his birthday. Coutinho, Perisic and Arp are all on the bench. Leipzig look to be playing a 3-3-2-2 formation, which means the two wingbacks in midfield will be doing a lot of running up and down the wings. Really keen to see how Kimmich is in midfield. Looks a risk, given the pressing nature of Julian Nagelsmann's team. RB Leipzig: Gulacsi - Orban, Konate, Mukiele - Halstenberg, Laimer, Klostermann - Sabitzer, Forsberg - Werner, Poulsen Bayern Munich XI: Neuer - Alaba, Süle, Hernandez, Pavard - Kimmich, Thiago - Coman, Müller, Gnabry - Lewandowski — It was Thomas Müller's 30th birthday yesterday. Who would bet against him scoring tonight? Hard to believe he's 30 already. Time eh? It truly waits for no one, not even an 8x Bundesliga winner, 5x German Cup winner, 1x Champions League 1 winner and that a World Cup winner. — There are many reasons to watch this. It's the best defense in 2019 (Leipzig have conceded just 14 goals) against the best attack (Bayern have scored 63) in the calendar year. Leipzig go into this game ahead of Bayern for the first time ever, while Robert Lewandowski has already scored as many goals after three games (6) than he had after 11 in the previous campaign. It's all set up for a brilliant game. — Hello! This is quite the meeting. Julian Nagelsmann against Niko Kovac. Timo Werner vs. Robert Lewandowski. Ralf Rangnick vs. Karl-Heinz Rummenigge. All the talk about RB Leipzig in the very early part of the season is about them mounting a title challenge. It might be a bit early for that, but tonight will perhaps give an indication of how serious they can be down the stretch.