France on Thursday rejected an accusation from Libya's internationally recognized interior ministry that it has been supporting Khalifa Haftar, whose self-styled Libyan National Army (LNA) have launched an offensive to take control of the country's capital of Tripoli. The Libyan interior ministry has suspended "all relations between the ministry and the French side ... due to the position of the French government in support of the criminal Haftar," the ministry said in Tripoli. Read more: Libya's battle for Tripoli — what you need to know A French foreign ministry official said these claims from Tripoli were "disappointing" and "completely unfounded." The French presidency said in a statement it supported Libya's internationally recognized government under Prime Minister Fayez al-Sarraj as well as "the mediation of the UN towards an inclusive political solution in Libya." France has helped train security forces associated with the Tripoli government, including police and Serraj's presidential guard. In February, France provided Serraj's forces with six patrol boats for its coastline. Send  Facebook   Twitter   google+   Whatsapp   Tumblr   linkedin   stumble   Digg   reddit   Newsvine Permalink https://p.dw.com/p/3H0ga Mixed support However, there has been some recognition of Haftar as the means to end the chaos that has plagued Libya since the capture and killing of longtime leader Moammar Gadhafi. Haftar currently enjoys the support of Egypt, Saudi Arabia and the United Arab Emirates, who believe he can restore stability and combat Islamist militants. Haftar's LNA began an assault on Tripoli earlier this month in an attempt to take control of the Libyan capital. The offensive came days before UN-backed peace talks were set to take place. On Thursday, two mortar bombs almost hit a clinic in al-Suani, a southwestern suburb of Tripoli, according to Reuters news agency. The attack came a day after seven people were killed by Grad rockets which hit a densely populated section of Tripoli. The two weeks of fighting have killed 205 people, including 18 civilians, and wounded 913, the World Health Organization (WHO) said on Thursday. The UN Security Council, lead by Germany as part of a dual-presidency with France, began have been negotiating a British-drafted resolution demanding a ceasefire in Libya and the creation of a humanitarian corridor from battle zones near Tripoli. However, Russia, the United States and African nations on the council did not support the British support. Germany has therefore called a closed-door meeting of the council to discuss the Libyan conflict, set to take place on Thursday. Awards were given at the opening ceremony to winners of a photo competition sponsored by DW Akademie and the EU Delegation in Libya. Amin Mustafa Alamri's portrait of a silversmith at work was among the winning photos. The competition was open to all Libyans with a goal to portray Libyan culture to outsiders. This photo by Sanad Alhalfi shows a traditional way of brewing tea. The photos reflect Libyan landscapes, customs, traditions and crafts. A woman in this photo by Naser Amghar is playing a stringed gourd, a traditional musical instrument. The competition was open to professional and amateur photographers. Omar Saleh submitted this winning photo of traditional Tuareg musicians. Eight photographers were honored for their portrayals of Libyan culture and landscapes. Sufian Alashger was up early to catch the desert at sunrise. Mahmoud Shenghee's photo introduces outsiders to bazine, a traditional Libyan dish served during festivities. Tuareg women making traditional jewelry, captured on camera by Hussein Suliman. Each of the eight winners won a one-week DW Akademie photography workshop in Tunisia. Photographer Khalid Alwerfali was one of the winners with this photo of Tripoli's Red Castle. dv/jm (AFP, Reuters) Every evening, DW's editors send out a selection of the day's hard news and quality feature journalism. You can sign up to receive it directly here.