Iranian officials said Saturday that six cities along the Karkheh River in the southwestern province of Khuzestan "must be evacuated as soon as possible." Fresh downpours have swelled the river's upstream, raising fears about new flooding in the area. Heavy rain in Khuzestan has been forecast for Saturday. Gholamreza Shariati, the provincial governor, told state media that rescue teams were taking residents to safer places. Shariati added that emergency discharges from dams were intensifying floods, but that the measures were essential to prevent the reservoirs from overflowing. Interior Minister Abdolreza Rahmani Fazli told state TV that over 400,000 people were at risk in the province. Iran's flooding has killed at least 70 people since March. Countrywide flooding It has been more than two weeks since storms unleashed flooding and landslides across 24 Iranian provinces, or about two thirds of the country. It is the worst flooding in Iran in nearly 100 years, in terms of the extent. Send  Facebook   Twitter   google+   Whatsapp   Tumblr   linkedin   stumble   Digg   reddit   Newsvine Permalink https://p.dw.com/p/3GPTj The first wave of flooding struck two days before Nowruz, the Persian New Year. Severe rainfall in the northwestern province of Golestan on March 18 led to flash floods that killed at least 17 people. The small provincial city of Aqqala was submerged and 20 villages in the province were surrounded by water. After the flooding began in the north of Iran, rains continued across the west and south of the country. Floods inundated the northwestern province of Azarbaijan, the southern province of Fars, and the oil-rich province of Khuzestan. Authorities issued travel warnings for Iranians across the country. Floodwaters also raged in Lorestan province. According to Iran's Red Crescent, the provincial city of Pol-e-Dokhtar was in a state of "super crisis." On Monday, local media reported the water level had reached 1.5 meters (5 feet) and the provincial governor said that authorities had "lost all contact" with the city. On Wednesday, the death toll of the floods in Iran increased to 62, with nearly 500 people injured. It has been longer than two weeks since storms unleashed flooding and landslides across 24 provinces, or about two-thirds of the country. It is thought to be the worst flooding in nearly 100 years, in terms of the extent. The first wave of the flooding struck two days before Norouz, the Persian New Year. Many Iranians celebrate and travel during this time. Severe rainfall in the northwestern province of Golestan on March 18 led to flash floods that killed at least 17 people. The small provincial city of Aqqala was submerged and 20 villages in the province were surrounded by water. After the flooding began in the north of Iran, rains continued across the west and south of the country. Floods inundated the northwestern province of Azarbaijan, the southern province of Fars, and the oil-rich southwestern province of Khuzestan. Authorities issued travel warnings for Iranians across the country. Videos of cars being piled up by the floodwaters and people fleeing to rooftops or utility poles waiting to be rescued went viral on social media. The images caused outrage over what Iranians are calling "mismanagement" of the disaster. Authorities issued travel warnings across the country. Collapsed bridges and damaged dams have led to many major routes being blocked. Iranian state media on Tuesday reported that residents of 70 villages in southwestern Khuzestan province had been ordered to evacuate. Rural people have reportedly been resisting evacuation because they fear losing their livestock. Roads to thousands of villages, along with electricity and communication, are reported to have been cut off by the flooding. Floodwaters rage in Lorestan province. According to Iran's Red Crescent, the provincial city of Pol-e-Dokhtar is in a state of "super crisis." On Monday, local media reported the water level had reached 1.5 meters (5 feet) and the provincial governor said that authorities had "lost all contact" with the city. Iran's Foreign Minister Mohammad-Javad Zarif said on Twitter that US sanctions were impeding aid efforts, accusing US President Trump of "economic terrorism" by preventing Iran from acquiring equipment like relief choppers. US Secretary of State Mike Pompeo said that the "Iranian regime's mismanagement" led to the disaster. Pompeo also said that the US was "ready to contribute" to relief efforts. Author: Shirin Shakib shs/jlw (AFP, AP) Every evening, DW's editors send out a selection of the day's hard news and quality feature journalism. You can sign up to receive it directly here.