Nipsey Hussle, a 33-year-old Grammy-nominated rapper, was shot and killed in the US city of Los Angeles authorities said on Sunday. Hussle, whose real name is Ermias Asghedom, was highly respected among the hip-hop community and in south Los Angeles where he grew up. What happened: People laid candles and flowers outside the store where Nipsey Hussle was shot 'This doesn't make any sense' News of Hussle's death prompted an outpouring of grief and tributes from fellow celebrities and LA city officials on social media. "This doesn't make any sense!" superstar Rihanna wrote on Twitter, posting pictures of Hussle with his daughter and his fiance, actress Lauren London. "I'm so sorry this happened to you." LA Mayor Eric Garcetti tweeted his condolences, writing that "LA is hurt deeply each time a young life is lost to senseless gun violence." Rapper Snoop Dog offered his condolences to Hussle's family in videos posted on Instagram, saying "This [stuff has] got to stop man." Rising star Hussle, an Eritrean-American, was born in the southern Los Angeles neighborhood of Crenshaw in 1985. In interviews, he spoke about growing up intertwined with LA gang culture and his involvement in the notorious Crips gang. He was famous in the underground rap scene, selling his own mixtapes out of the back of his car — with rap superstar Jay-Z once buying 100 of Hussle's CDs for $100 (€89) each. Hussle's debut album "Victory Lap" was one of the nominees for best rap album at the Grammy Awards this year. The rapper attended the award ceremony with his daughter. With a total of eight nominations, Kendrick Lamar leads the field for the coveted music award this year, including song of the year and album of the year. While the rapper didn't release an album of his own in 2018, he was executive producer for the soundtrack to the blockbuster film, "Black Panther." Still only 31, Pulitzer Prize-winning Lamar has already pocketed 11 Grammys. Rapper Drake is a close second in terms of 2019 Grammy nominations, and he might ultimately take home more awards than Lamar — even though it's claimed both turned down offers to perform at the award ceremony. Drake and Lamar stand to profit from an increase in the number of nominations per main category in the wake of criticism that the awards were to white and too male-dominated. Brandi Carlile's folk-rock ballads tackle contemporary social issues such as opioid addiction and the migrant crisis, while her 2018 album "By the Way, I Forgive You" topped the US charts and has garnered celebrity fans like former president Barack Obama. The gay 38-year-old is the most-nominated woman at the Grammy's with six, including best Americana album and song of the year for "The Joke." Lady Gaga scored five nominations this year, four alone for the song "Shallow" from the movie "A Star Is Born." Although she sings the song with co-star Bradley Cooper, he would not be a co-winner for song of the year because he didn't co-write the number. A possible Best Duo award would go to both Lady Gaga and Cooper, however. Anton Zaslavski was three when his family relocated from the Soviet Union to Germany, where he grew up and learned classical music.In 2012, now known as Zedd, he moved to the US and soon became a top DJ and producer working with the likes of Lady Gaga and Ariana Grande. Having won his first Grammy in 2014 for breakout album "Clarity," this year Zedd is thrice-nominated for the song "The Middle." Latvian conductor Mariss Jansons is an honorary member of both the Berlin and Vienna Philharmonic orchestras, and he holds the Royal Philharmonic Society Gold Medal. Nominated for Best Choral performance of Rachmaninov's "The Bells" with the Symphony Orchestra and Choir of Germany's Bayerischer Rundfunk broadcaster, he just might win another Grammy this year to add to his first in 2006. Author: Torsten Landsberg (db) rs/jil (AP, AFP) Every evening, DW's editors send out a selection of the day's hard news and quality feature journalism. You can sign up to receive it directly here.