Organizers of the world-renowned Dakar Rally said on Monday that the off-road race would be held in "the deep and mysterious deserts of the Middle East, in Saudi Arabia" in 2020. The race initially stretched from Paris, France to Dakar, Senegal. However, the route was eventually shifted to South America due to terror threats in Mauritania. About the race: Read more: How a young German racecar driver is using passion for cars for good Since 1979, the race has gone from its original Paris-Dakar route to South America and now the Middle East 'A new desert' Dakar Rally director David Castera said "the main idea of the Dakar race is discovery, adventure." "I'm already inspired and delighted to have to design a course in such a monumental geography, made for the most audacious itineraries," said Castera, a former rally racer. "We are spoiled for choice. Sports, navigation, a will to surpass oneself: all these aspects will naturally be glorified on this territory made for rally-raids." Saudi Prince Abdulaziz bin Turki al-Faisal al-Saud, who chairs Saudi Arabia's sports authority, said the Kingdom was "thrilled" to be the next destination for the rally. "The vision and guidance of our leaders have made our dreams and ambitions limitless and have set the sports scene in the Kingdom on a remarkable success route," al-Saud said. "Our country is extremely passionate about sport and our strategic goal is to feed that appetite." The oil-rich gulf has started hosting motorsport events of all kinds in the past two decades, establishing major circuits in Bahrain and Abu Dhabi and attracting race series including Formula 1, Moto GP, Formula E and more. Read more: Simracing: Virtual motorsports Every evening, DW's editors send out a selection of the day's hard news and quality feature journalism. You can sign up to receive it directly here. Send  Facebook   Twitter   google+   Whatsapp   Tumblr   linkedin   stumble   Digg   reddit   Newsvine Permalink https://p.dw.com/p/2vMw7 ls/msh (AP, AFP)