State prosecutors in Germany are investigating the Essen-based car rental company Dexcar over allegations that it ran an illegal Ponzi scheme, defrauding customers across Europe, German media reported Monday. The scheme could be the largest ever run by a rental car firm in Europe, according to the reports. The allegations According to information gathered by the German daily Süddeutsche Zeitung (SZ) and broadcaster WDR: Read more: German fintech Wirecard stock jumps after corruption charge clearance Impossible calculation Austrian consumer advocate Paul Rusching, who is familiar with the case, was cited by SZ and WDR as saying the system was "mathematically completely impossible, let alone financially." Using information from a Dexcar brochure as a basis, he calculated "that a rental car would cost the driver three cents per day," which was not financially viable. He said he suspected an illegal Ponzi scheme. Read more: Cum-ex tax fraud: German police carry out raids in four states Nissan Motor chairman Carlos Ghosn was arrested in November 2018 and subsequently charged with falsifying financial reports and breach of trust. He led a remarkable turnaround at the Japanese automaker, rescuing it from bankruptcy. An investigation continues into whether he under-reported his salary by 5 billion yen (€39 million $44.5 million) over five years from 2011. Ex-Volkswagen CEO Martin Winterkorn resigned in 2015 in the midst of the Dieselgate scandal. The automaker was found to have lowered the emissions of its diesel-engine cars during environmental tests. VW set aside €27 billion to pay fines, buybacks and compensation Winterkorn has been charged in the US with fraud and conspiracy, but Germany does not allow the extradition of its nationals. In 2007, Siemens chairman Heinrich von Pierer stepped down following a corruption scandal during his time as CEO. During the investigation it emerged that Siemens had created a system of slush funds and fictitious consultancy contracts, while also paying huge bribes, totaling at least €1.3 billion euros to win foreign contracts. Pierer later agreed to pay €5 million in damages to the firm. Once-powerful movie titan, Harvey Weinstein, has been accused by dozens of women of sexual misconduct ranging from harassment to rape. He is out on bail and has pleaded not guilty in New York to six counts reportedly committed against three women. The accusations against him spurred the #MeToo movement, where women worldwide have spoken up against sexual harassment and assault. Sir Martin Sorrell, the founder of the global advertising powerhouse WPP, stepped down in April after 33 years. He denied accusations of personal misconduct and misuse of company assets. The Wall Street Journal alleged Sorrell had paid a sex worker on company expenses, which he responded were “scurrilous and salacious" claims. Uber CEO Travis Kalanick resigned from his position in July 2017 after heavy pressure from several major investors in the San Francisco-based ride-hailing company. Concerns were raised about Kalanick's management style, including allegations of sexual harassment and discrimination. Under his watch, the firm's ruthless reputation has also been criticized by regulators. Author: Nik Martin Author: Nik Martin What does the company say? Dexcar founder and manager Mario Gai has denied the allegations, according to SZ and WDR, saying his firm is the target of a defamation campaign. The reports say the company has vacated its Essen premises and is now operating from Belarus as a mainly online service. What is happening with investigations? In Germany, state prosecutors from the western city of Bochum who are specialized in economic crime are investigating the company over the allegations. SZ and WDR say that investigations in Austria and Italy are also underway and that the anti-trust authority in Italy has also imposed a €400,000 fine on Dexcar. He gave his name to a despicable fraud technique: Charles Ponzi What is a Ponzi scheme? A Ponzi scheme is a form of fraud when earlier investors in a business are paid profits using funds from later investors while under the impression that those profits have been generated by product sales or other means. The scheme is named after Charles Ponzi, an Italian con artist who used the technique in the USA and Canada in the 1920s. Send  Facebook   Twitter   google+   Whatsapp   Tumblr   linkedin   stumble   Digg   reddit   Newsvine Permalink https://p.dw.com/p/3CXjT Each evening at 1830 UTC, DW's editors send out a selection of the day's hard news and quality feature journalism. You can sign up to receive it directly here.