Charlie Rowley, 45, whose partner ,Dawn Sturgess, died last year after being exposure to the nerve agent Novichok, held a 90-minute meeting on Saturday with Ambassador Alexander Yakovenko at Russia's embassy in London. The meeting was arranged by Britain's Sunday Mirror newspaper. Rowley and Sturgess, a 44-year-old mother of three, fell ill on June 30 last year. British authorities determined that the couple was exposed to Novichok, a military-grade nerve agent developed by the Soviet Union during the last phase of the Cold War. The same substance used in a failed attempt to kill ex-spy Sergei Skripal and his daughter, Yulia, in Salisbury three months earlier. Read more: Vladimir Putin calls poisoned spy Sergei Skripal a traitor and 'scumbag' Sturgess had died after handling a perfume bottle that apparently held the nerve agent that was used against Skripal and Yulia. Rowley had found this bottle in Salisbury and gave it to his girlfriend. He spent 10 days in a coma and has ongoing health problems, including loss of his eyesight. "I went along to ask them 'why did your country kill my girlfriend?'" Rowley told the tabloid newspaper. "But I didn't really get any answers. I just got Russian propaganda," Rowley added. "I liked the ambassador, but I thought some of what he said trying to justify Russia not being responsible was ridiculous … The ambassador kept saying the substance wasn't the Novichok they had made because if it was, it would have killed everyone," Rowley said after the meeting. Read more: Salisbury poisoning suspects' story: What doesn't add up? Britain accused two officers from Russian's military intelligence agency, the GRU, of being responsible for the Novichok poisonings. The two men denied the allegations. Read more: Kremlin ridicules UK spy poison claims A Russian TV station also reported Rowley's meeting with the Russian envoy, saying the British man was eager for answers that Britain had failed to provide him. Send  Facebook   Twitter   google+   Whatsapp   Tumblr   linkedin   stumble   Digg   reddit   Newsvine Permalink https://p.dw.com/p/34N3v shs/jlw (AFP, dpa) Every evening, DW's editors send out a selection of the day's hard news and quality feature journalism. You can sign up to receive it directly here.