Animal rights campaigners have urged Germans to refrain from lighting fires to celebrate Easter this year, warning the custom could be fatal for small species. Gathering around a bonfire on the eve of Easter Sunday is a popular tradition in Northern Europe that dates back to pagan times. In many parts of Germany, the ritual, which likely began as a way to greet the spring after a long winter, is as much a part of the long weekend as theEaster bunny or hunting for eggs. Piles of dried wood and kindling are often assembled days, or even weeks, in advance to prepare for the event. According to conservation group NABU, that's a problem for a host of insects, birds and small animals — including hedgehogs, rabbits, shrews, toads and weasels — who might see the stack of wood as an attractive place to seek shelter or build a nest. "When these fires are lit for Easter, they virtually become a funeral pyre for these animals," NABU spokesman Philip Foth said. Read more: How to celebrate Easter in Germany Easter egg hunts are a widespread tradition. Children especially enjoy hunting colorfully decorated hard-boiled eggs on Easter Sunday morning, es seen here near Goethe's garden house in Weimar. The egg symbolizes new life. Why does a rabbit hide the Easter eggs? What makes no biological sense has established itself as a custom. A possible reason is that rabbits are known for their fertility, so, like the eggs, they symbolize life. Like the rabbit, the lamb is considered a symbol of Easter. For one thing, the Bible refers to Jesus as the "Lamb of God." For another, the lamb is a reminder of the exodus from Egypt and Passover, when the Israelites sprinkled their door frames with the blood of sacrificial lambs to remind the Angel of Death to spare them. Loud ringing of bells on Easter Sunday announces the "good news" of Christ's resurrection to Christians. In some places church bells fall silent from Maundy Thursday to Easter Sunday. According to Roman Catholic legend, they fly to Rome during that time and don't return until the night before Easter. During Easter mass in churches, a paschal candle also plays a special role. The light is passed from candle to candle to remind the faithful that, with his resurrection, Christ brought light into the darkness of the world. The tradition of the Easter bonfire probably existed before the coming of Christianity as a pagan ritual among Germanic tribes. It was meant to dispel the darkness of winter and welcome the spring. Families, friends and neighbors meet in fields or river meadows to light the fires. Easter wheels also herald the coming of spring. This tradition can be found mainly in rural areas in northern Germany and the Harz mountains. On Easter Sunday large oak wheels stuffed with straw are lit and rolled downhill. The wheel of fire symbolizes the disc formed by the sun. The Sorbs, a Slavic minority in eastern Germany, cultivate their own Easter traditions. In Bautzen, in Saxony, Easter riders proclaim the Easter message on the Peace Bridge, which they then take to the surrounding communities accompanied by songs and prayers. Because temperatures are usually milder around Easter, many people are drawn to taking a traditional Easter promenade in the fresh air. This special mood was immortalized by German poet Johann Wolfgang von Goethe in his tragedy "Faust." Author: Noemi Mihalovici In a statement, NABU said that Germans wanting to take part in the bonfire tradition should construct their fire as close as possible to Sunday. If that's not an option, they should carefully rearrange the sticks on the day of the fire to give animals a chance to flee. Spokesman Foth said many communities were aware of the danger, with some cities imposing fire regulations. In the northern state of Bremen, for example, there's a law stipulating that Easter bonfires cannot be built more than a day before the event. The rule also states that any animals that are found must be taken to a safe place. Read more: Beyond chocolate: The egg in art and design In Oberhausen, in the western industrial Ruhr district, Easter fires are only allowed if they are public, not private, events. In Norderstedt, just north of Hamburg, the local branch of the Green Party has called for private Easter fires to be banned over the carbon emissions they produce. According to the Federal Environment Agency, the emissions from these traditional fires and campfires combined amount to some 400,000 tons being released in Germany each year. ... sat on a wall until he "had a great fall," as everyone who has ever heard the popular nursery rhyme knows. But this poor fellow is never explicitly called an egg. However, in British author Lewis Carroll's 1871 book "Through the Looking-Glass" (above), Alice marvels at "how exactly like an egg he is." In fact, he has popped up in numerous works of literature described as looking like an egg. Intricate, made of gold, enamel and precious and semi-precious stones, Faberge eggs were a luxurious gift indeed. The most famous are the 50 so-called Imperial eggs the Russian jeweler Peter Carl Faberge made for the Romanov Czars as Easter presents for their wives and mothers. The royal valuables are almost exclusively showcased in collections and museums worldwide. A raw egg is the epitome of fragility, but in the above sculpture by US artist Jeff Koons, it is made of hard, shiny stainless steel, coated on the outside in a brilliant magenta. This particular "Cracked Egg" is one of five tall egg sculptures in different stark colors, created between 1994 and 2006 and described by Koons as a "symbol of birth." Same egg, different shape: The frying pan with a sunny-side up egg is a popular emoji. The ideograms that first showed up on Japanese mobiles in the late 90s have conquered messaging around the world. Far from the mundane egg, the "Face with Tears of Joy" emoji was named Word of the Year by Oxford Dictionaries in 2015. Along with the above pan, it is one of more than 2,000 that people use. Hieronymus Bosch, a 15th and early 16th century Dutch painter, is known for his nightmarish illustrations. The central panel of the triptych "The Last Judgment" shows hellish creatures mercilessly punishing the damned, among them a monster with a head and legs stuck in an egg pierced by a spear. Art lovers can purchase the "egg monster" online in the form of a "hand-painted resin" figurine. Note the egg-shaped object in Salvador Dali's "Metamorphosis of Narcissus." The surrealist artist's 1937 oil painting looks at the Greek myth of Narcissus about a beautiful man who is engrossed in his own reflection in a pool. This narrative is barely visible in the painting; instead it shows Narcissus' mirrored transformation into a huge hand holding a egg from which a narcissus flower springs. Large white egg-shaped objects perch on top of the Dali Theatre-Museum in the Spanish town of Figueres. The museum is filled with Dali's paintings, drawings, sculptures, engravings, installations, holograms, stereoscopes and photos. Dali himself designed it to be "a great surrealist object ... the people who come to see it will leave with the sensation of having had a theatrical dream." In 1958 Arne Jacobsen created the Egg Chair for the lobby of the SAS Royal Hotel in Copenhagen. The Danish architect and designer was in fact responsible for the entire the new hotel, from its architecture to its interior design. Simple, effective, with an almost sculpted look, the inviting egg-shaped lounge chair is a design classic that has inspired countless furniture designers. Author: Dagmar Breitenbach nm/msh (KNA, dpa) Every day, DW's editors send out a selection of the day's hard news and quality feature journalism. Sign up for the newsletter here.