After a draw with Freiburg that cast fresh doubt on their quest to win a seventh straight Bundesliga title, Bayern Munich welcome Borussia Dortmund to the Allianz Arena with a two point deficit. A repeat of Dortmund's 3-2 win in the first meeting of the sides this season would leave Bayern needing to make up five points in six games and BVB likely to win their first title since 2012. Here's how our writers think it will go. Michael Da Silva - Returning Reus to inspire Dortmund Dortmund have struggled when Marco Reus is not there, as seen only last week when they limped over the line with two late goals against Wolfsburg. Reus is not only a goal threat himself, but brings the best out of Jadon Sancho, and that attacking axis will be key for Dortmund. While Bayern have done well to even make it into a title race, Dortmund's ceiling has been higher than Bayern's all season and they are more than capable of pulling a big performance out of the bag on the big night. Dortmund are vulnerable at the back, but could welcome back Lukasz Piszczek, which would be huge boost. The Pole has been missed since getting injured in February. Going out of the Champions League early seems to have knocked Bayern's confidence, and it's worth noting that Sven Ulreich has conceded five goals in the two games he has been deputizing for the injured Manuel Neuer in goal for Bayern. Should he play, his confidence won't be high, and neither will Bayern's. Prediction: Bayern 1-3 Dortmund Sven Ulreich has conceded five in two games Matt Pearson - Weakness out wide will cost Dortmund Although few in the Dortmund camp will say it out loud, Lucien Favre and his players must know this is their chance, not just for this season, but perhaps for the foreseeable future, with Bayern ramping up their squad overhaul even before 2018-19 has ended. The freedom and verve of BVB's early season displays have been replaced with nervy wins, often secured in the dying moments of games and it's difficult to see that as sustainable. While Bayern have had their own problems in the last week, it just feels like their experience might prove critical. The injury problems that leave Dortmund desperately short at fullback — even if he returns Piszczek can't possibly be match fit — could well be exposed by Kingsley Coman, Serge Gnabry and/or Franck Ribery and will prove decisive on Saturday. Prediction: Bayern 2-1 Dortmund Jonathan Harding - Dortmund squad too thin With neither side looking particularly strong defensively, this will be as goal rich as the first fixture. At home, and knowing in some respects the pressure is off them, Bayern will have the edge. This is a chance for Dortmund to open a five point gap — the kind of cushion that might allow for a sloppy draw or loss somewhere else — and potentially seal a title they might not otherwise see for a while if Bayern's transfer work is considered. Send  Facebook   Twitter   google+   Whatsapp   Tumblr   linkedin   stumble   Digg   reddit   Newsvine Permalink https://p.dw.com/p/3GDEO This Dortmund side is young and only recently put together. Bayern might be creaking and be under the stewardship of a new head coach, but so many players have been here before. They know what is needed, and that will prove the difference on Saturday and down the stretch. Whatever the result, with six games left after this, the title will likely not be decided by the outcome of this game. Both teams have shown too often this season that they are capable of dropping points unexpectedly. But for Dortmund, it's a chance to land the rarest of things — a psychological blow to Bayern's title hopes. Prediction: Bayern 3-2 Dortmund Davis VanOpdorp - Valuable away point for BVB No, Dortmund are not in top form. Yes, their squad depth, especially in defense, is very thin. But the Bundesliga leaders have a very good chance of getting at least a point from Saturday's Klassiker. Dortmund could extend their Bundesliga lead to five points with victory in the Klassiker. To assume Bayern are going to rise to the occasion in the Allianz Arena is risky based on recent results. They put in a drab performance in their second leg against Liverpool in the Champions League last 16 — a match where there was everything to play for. On Wednesday, they were nearly eliminated by second-tier side Heidenheim in the German Cup on their own turf. Dortmund's potent attack has kept them competitive in many games this season, especially when Marco Reus is in the fold. Just look at the reverse fixture: BVB turned a 2-1 second-half deficit into a 3-2 win. Even if they fall behind in Munich, they are more than capable of at least leveling the score. They know how important this game is to their season. A draw may seem anti-climatic in this tightly contested title race, but such a result would certainly feel like a victory for Dortmund in the bigger picture. Prediction: Bayern 2-2 Dortmund The 99th Bundesliga edition of 'Der Klassiker,' last November in Dortmund, lived up to its billing. Bayern twice took the lead through Robert Lewandowski, but Marco Reus twice equaled the score. In the end, Dortmund's summer signing, Paco Alcacer sent the BVB fans home with smiles on their faces. This put first-placed BVB seven points ahead of fifth-placed Bayern - 11 matches into the season. Their encounter on Matchday 28 of last season, was memorable only for Bayern fans. Dortmund were down by three on 23 minutes, and never pulled themselves off the canvas. By the break it was 5-0. Robert Lewandowski waited until the 87th minute to complete his hat trick for a final score of 6-0. Top of the table Bayern were running away with things in the table, 21 points ahead of BVB in third. Bayern Munich have usually had the upper hand, and not just in the Bundesliga. Germany's record champions took home the biggest prize in club football when the two teams met in the 2013 Champions League final at Wembley. Arjen Robben scored the winner as Bayern beat Dortmund 2-1 in one of the most exciting finals in the competition's history. Robben also scored the winner as Bayern beat Dortmund 1-0 in the quarterfinals of the German Cup in 2013. Bayern would go on to win the competition, completing the treble - Jupp Heynckes' last hurrah, until he was called back into action for Bayern following the sacking of Carlo Ancelotti. Dortmund, though, did win the 2012 German Cup final, beating Bayern 5-2 to complete the double. At the time, some thought this was a sign that BVB were about succeed Bayern as Germany's top team. But it took until 2017 for Dortmund to add to their silverware collection - with another German Cup. Not until 2018-19 did BVB mount another credible challenge for the Bundesliga title. Jan Koller was actually a striker, but in November 2002, the Czech national team player was pressed into action between the sticks. Goalkeeper Jens Lehmann had been sent off after Dortmund had used up all of their subs. Koller kept a clean sheet, at one point stopping a powerful shot from Michael Ballack. Depite his heroics, Bayern won 2-1. The rivalry between the teams has often been heated. Munich's Brazilian striker Giovane Elber (left) was usually quite laid back. However, agent provocateur Jens Lehmann even managed to get under his skin. Just before this meeting of minds, in another 2002 match, the Dortmund goalkeeper had knocked Elber to the ground. Dortmund midfielder Andreas Möller was another player who was capable of getting under an opponent's skin - sometimes with theatrical swan dives. In this 1997 contest, Bayern's Lothar Matthäus seemed to think he was nothing more than a crybaby. No, this isn't Jackie Chan, but Bayern goalkeeper Oliver Kahn. In this match in April 1999, "King Kahn" seemed to be close to losing it as he charged way beyond his penalty area and lunged at Dortmund striker Stephane Chapisat with an outstretched right leg. Chapuisat managed to get out of the way in the nick of time and lived to tell the tale. This April 2001 match was perhaps the most heated of all the battles between two clubs. Referee Hartmut Strampe sent off two Bayern players (Bixente Lizarazu, Stefan Effenberg) and one of their Dortmund opponents (Evanilson) while issuing a total of 13 yellow cards. Between all the fouling that went on, Roque Santa Cruz and Fredi Bobic each managed to score to make it a 1-1 draw. In August of 1986 Dortmund striker Frank Mill walked around Bayern keeper Jean-Marie Pfaff for what looked to be a certain goal. It remains a mystery to this day how he managed to miss the open goal, but he saw his close-range shot hit the post in a game that ended 2-2. Gerd "Der Bomber" Müller (second from left) helped lay a beating on Dortmund in November 1971, scoring four goals as Bayern won 11-1. This remains Bayern's highest margin of victory in any Bundesliga game. Author: Chuck Penfold, Jonathan Harding