"It really seems that nicotine protects against Parkinson's," Daniela Berg, head of the Clinic for Neurology in Kiel, told DW. "Nicotine does not only refer to smoking itself, passive smoking is just as much a part of it as tobacco chewing," Berg explained. However, nicotine is not only found in tobacco, it's also found in nightshade plants such as potatoes, tomatoes and pepper. The amounts are very small, but nicotine — even in small amounts — has often been the main subject of studies. "There is hardly anything other than nicotine that has been found to protect against Parkinson's," says Berg. Some studies conclude that smoking stimulates certain enzymes that inactivate nerve toxins. "The effect of nicotine is not yet fully understood, but the fact is that people who smoke are less likely to develop Parkinson's disease. But of course you wouldn't advise anyone to smoke because there are far too many negative outcomes," said the neurologist. How Parkinson's can be prevented and treated, and how and where the disease develops, are just a few aspects of the disease that are currently being researched internationally. Send  Facebook   Twitter   google+   Whatsapp   Tumblr   linkedin   stumble   Digg   reddit   Newsvine Permalink https://p.dw.com/p/2yKgM A question of genes A study published in 2016 in the medical journal The Lancet shows the incidence of Parkinson's disease worldwide. Canada and North America lead the statistics, although both are highly developed regions with very good medical care. But this is not necessarily crucial. "There are certain population groups that have a genetic predisposition and therefore have an increased risk of developing Parkinson's disease," explains Berg. Some population groups in North America also have such a genetic predisposition. "We now know that mutations in certain genes could be the main cause of Parkinson's disease in this population group." Genetic predisposition is not everything The environment also plays a major role. Environmental toxins, which can be dangerous for the nervous system, include pesticides. Unlike in Germany and Europe, these were permitted in Canada and North America until recently. "These pesticides increase the risk of Parkinson's disease. They are very bad for cell metabolism," says Berg. Environmental toxins destroy our nerve cells An example of the connection between environmental toxins and Parkinson's disease can also be found in South America. Scientists have found that people who break down the metal manganese there have an increased risk of developing Parkinson's disease. The trace element manganese is harmful for nerve cells. How we live It is the complex interaction between genes and the environment that promotes Parkinson's disease. "If there was a single factor, we could hope that we had already found it," said Berg. "Then we would be able to advise people accordingly and nobody would get Parkinson's." Lifestyle also has a decisive influence on neurodegenerative diseases such as Parkinson's disease. This includes nutrition. Polyphenol-containing foods such as green tea, coffee and many other substances contained in red berries have a positive effect on nerve cells. "They remove the bad metabolic products. They are particularly helpful in cases of oxidative stress, for example where poor metabolic products can damage the cells," explains Berg. In this sense, a Mediterranean diet is also recommended, as it is also helpful for the prevention of cardiovascular diseases. Sport and exercise Physical activity has a very important role to play. "People who exercise moderately to a lot in middle age have a substantially reduced risk of developing Parkinson's disease in old age," Berg told DW. These aspects were investigated in a large study. "Compared to people who do little or no sport, the relative risk of developing Parkinson's was reduced by about 40 percent." Green tea is part of everyday life in Japan The overall "Japan" concept The lifestyle in Japan is very different from that in western countries, like North America. In Japan, green tea is everywhere and Japanese people consume a lot of polyphenols during their lifetime, which reduce bad metabolic products in the body. Nutrition, such as the frequent consumption of fish, and healing methods in Japan differ significantly from those in western countries. "In Asia, for example, there is a root that contains dopamine. The people there do not take Parkinson's drugs, but the root. They have the same ingredients," explains Berg. Berg also sees another possible explanation for the relatively low number of Parkinson's cases in Japan and Asia in general in genetic predisposition. "These people may have more protective genes than others. We know that there are simply people-specific genetic backgrounds." It's a combination of numerous factors that protect the body. This also includes exercise. Hardly any Parkinson's disease in Africa In Africa the life expectancy of people is far lower on average than in the West. Parkinson's disease, however, mostly affects older people, and predisposition is also an important aspect in Africa. There are hardly any Parkinson's cases in Africa "We are already different on the outside alone. Our fellow human beings in Asia look different from our fellow human beings in Africa and from us. This difference is also reflected in the way certain metabolic products are broken down in the cells," explains Berg. There are not only external differences, but also genetic ones, and these can be decisive. Too few neurologists The scientists agree on one thing: it's difficult to conduct a reliable study worldwide on which regions have the most Parkinson's cases and why. After all, Parkinson's must first be diagnosed. While there are good conditions for this in America and Europe, neurologists are lacking in Africa, and only very few of them are able to diagnose Parkinson's reliably. In some African countries it's possible to count the number of neurologists on one hand, says Berg. "I know from colleagues in Africa that many people with neurological diseases have never seen a doctor before, let alone a neurologist." Global phenomenon and global problem According to The Lancet, Parkinson's cases have more than doubled worldwide in about 25 years, from 2.5 million patients in 1990 to 6.1 million in 2016, but it's difficult to determine why some regions have a much higher number of Parkinson's cases than others. "There are plenty of hypotheses, but no precise reasons yet," says Berg. If the data were clearer, much more could be done about Parkinson's disease. At the moment, however, this is still wishful thinking. Sugar is converted to fat in the body about two to five times more quickly than starches. In other words, when we consume sugar, we’re feeding our fat cells. The fructose in sugar is also metabolized by the liver, which can contribute to fatty liver disease. That can promote insulin resistance and lead to Type 2 diabetes – with a lifelong impact on your health. In small amounts, sugar promotes the release of serotonin, a hormone that boosts mood. But too much sugar can promote depression and anxiety. Sudden shifts in blood sugar levels can also lead to irritability, anxiety and mood swings. We already know that sugar has a variety of health effects, but it also affects the skin. That’s in part due to glycation, the process whereby sugar molecules bind to collagen fibers. As a result, the collagen fibers lose their natural elasticity. Excess sugar also damages microcirculation, which slows cell turnover. That can promote the development of wrinkles, make you look older than your age. The microflora of your gut promote digestion and protect your digestive system from harmful bacteria. Consuming too much sugar gets your gut microflora out of whack. Fungi and parasites love sugar. An excess of the Candida albicans yeast can lead to a host of annoying health symptoms. And sugar also contributes to constipation, diarrhea and gas. In overweight people, the brain responds to sugar by releasing dopamine, in much the same way that it responds to alcohol or other addictive substances. Test it yourself: avoid all sugary foods and beverages for ten days. If you start to get headachy and irritable after a day or two, and start craving sugar, then you could be suffering from sugar withdrawal. People who consume excess sugar are more likely to engage in aggressive behavior. Children with ADHD are also affected by sugar. For these children, too much sugar affects concentration and promotes hyperactivity. That’s why it’s a good idea for children to avoid eating sugar during school hours. Excessive sugar consumption makes it harder for the immune system to ward off disease. After consuming sugar, the immune system’s ability to kill germs is reduced by up to 40 percent. Sugar also saps the body’s store of vitamin C, which white blood cells need to fight off viruses and bacteria. Sugar also promotes the inflammatory response, and even minor inflammation can trigger numerous diseases. Studies have shown that excess sugar consumption increases the risk of developing Alzheimer’s disease. A 2013 study showed that insulin resistance and high blood sugar values – both of which are common in diabetes – are associated with a higher risk of neurodegenerative diseases such as Alzheimer’s. Cancer cells need sugar to proliferate. An international research team headed by Lewis Cantley of Harvard Medical School is researching how sugar might contribute to the growth of malignant cells. He believes that refined sugar may be what causes cancer cells to develop into tumors. He’s still testing that hypothesis but recommends that even slender people consume as little sugar as possible. Excess sugar consumption may have a negative impact on memory. According to a study carried out by Berlin’s Charité University Hospital, people with high blood sugar levels have a smaller hippocampus – the part of the brain that’s key to long term memory. In the study, people with high blood sugar also performed more poorly on tests of memory than those with low blood sugar levels.