Cho Yang-ho, the head of Korean Air, "died peacefully" on Monday at the age of 70, South Korea's flagship airline said. His death came less than two weeks after he was forced to step down as chairman of the airline's board despite being a controlling shareholder. Read more: Korean Air chairman's daughter found guilty in 'nut rage' case News of Cho's death sent Korean Air's parent company Hanjin Kal soaring more than 20%. "The death appears to have helped erase the so-called CEO Risks, which have plagued Hanjin group firms, as a series of controversies and misconducts by the owner family members have hurt corporate values," a brokerage analyst said, according to South Korea's Yonhap new agency. 'Takeover battle' Under his chairmanship, Korean Air was embroiled in several scandals involving founding family members, including Cho's eldest daughter. Heather Cho in 2014 tarnished Korean Air's image when she lost her temper over how she was served nuts in first class. She then ordered the aircraft to return to its gate in a move that made international headlines. According to some analysts, his death will likely trigger a family battle over his shares. "Of course, this family will try to inherit his shares, but that can take time and money," said Um Kyung-a, an analyst from Shinyoung Securities. "So that opens a window for expectations about the takeover battle." Every evening, DW's editors send out a selection of the day's hard news and quality feature journalism. You can sign up to receive it directly here. When it comes to passenger numbers, no airport can measure up to the one in Atlanta. Almost 104 million people passed through Hartsfield-Jackson air-traffic hub in 2017, according to data provided by airport association ACI. No other airport has managed to break 100 million. This makes Hartsfield-Jackson number one on our list. China has its own favorite: Beijing Capital International Airport ranks second in the number of passengers, welcoming 95.8 million people in 2017. The air-traffic infrastructure was built up ahead of the 2008 Olympic Games. UK star architect Norman Foster designed a new, sprawling terminal for the event. In 2017, Dubai's airport welcomed over 88 million passengers. Almost all of them were non-Arabs — as many as 87.72 million. Many of them apparently appreciate Dubai International for its almost legendary reputation for shopping. Alas, the Japanese capital is not in the top three, but its airport still boasts 85.4 million visitors per year, enough for a solid fourth place in our ranking. If you go on vacation to California, chances are you will land at Los Angeles International Airport, better known as the LAX in America. The flow of passengers does not quite measure up to the Atlanta airport, but it still had over 85.5 million visitors last year. Even in Chicago, there is no rest from fans for German football star Bastian Schweinsteiger. The former Bayern Munich and Manchester United midfielder now plays for Chicago Fire, and frequently flies through O'Hare. Schweinsteiger is only one of 79.81 million passengers who go through the Chicago hub, which is named after an American WWII pilot. London boasts three airports, the largest and most well known of which is Heathrow. It services just over 78 million passengers per year. And it manages all that with just two runways. You don't have to be in a plane to sneak a good look at Hong Kong's competitor, called Chek Lap Kok Airport locally. The compound is similarly impressive from a cable car as it may have been for the 72.67 million passengers who travelled through it in 2017. Hong Kong, or "fragrant harbor" in English, is built on reclaimed land on the island of Chek Lap Kok in the South China Sea. Safety first! One of Shanghai's two airports ranks just behind Hong Kong's. Pudong International Airport served 70 million passengers in 2017. This marks a slight drop from the year before, but cargo flights picked up by over 11 percent, according to ACI. The Paris airport named after President de Gaulle, also known as Roissy airport, comes in at number 10 on our list of busiest air-traffic hubs. Last year, it welcomed 69.47 million passengers. But those figures are not everything in an airport ranking; There are also parameters such as the amount of goods transported, the size, the number of terminals and many more. And then there is the amount of time it takes to actually build an airport. In that respect, the Germans might well be No. 1. Perhaps it's simply a question of definition: The nine years that have so far passed since construction began could be seen as evidence of thoroughness. ls/ng (AFP, Reuters)