500 years before Tony Stark, aka Iron Man, made his silver screen debut, a rich and powerful German also used technology to overcome a life-changing injury as he led battles across his homeland. But was this original Iron Man or sorts, dubbed Götz of the Iron Hand, a hero or villain? Born in 1480 to a noble Württemberg family, Götz von Berlichingen came into the world at a turbulent time as conflicts between nobles and rival cities raged across southern Germany.  It was perhaps inevitable that the young Götz's life would largely be dedicated to warfare, and before turning 18 he was already fighting for the Holy Roman Empire against Swiss forces during the Swabian War. Taking orders didn't suit Berlichingen, however. He soon left the Emperor's service and formed a mercenary army fighting for the highest bidder — an emerging phenomenon at the time. Read more: 'Avengers: Infinity War' breaks global record with $630 million opening A legend begins The event that was to define Berlichingen's life and legacy happened during his early career as a mercenary. While besieging the city of Landshut in 1504, enemy cannon fire hit his sword, sending it deep into his right arm. Unable to be saved, his hand and wrist were amputated. Iron Man's inspiration? A portrait of Götz von Berlichingen from 1880 For many of his kind, losing a right hand would mean the end of their career, a retreat to a more peaceful life. But Berlichingen was determined to get back on the front line and commissioned a local blacksmith to create a prosthetic capable of holding a sword. Two versions were made, with the second capable of articulated movement so that it could tightly grasp objects. Both prostheses are now on display at the Jagsthausen Castle near Heilbronn where Berlichingen was raised. The original Iron Man? As the knight quickly became competent using his stronger iron hand, he soon re-entered the battlefield. In the following years, his mercenary brigade rampaged across southern and central Germany while fighting for whomever would pay the highest price. Meanwhile, Berlichingen also began warring with fellow knights. This won him few friends, and resulted in him being placed under an imperial ban in 1512 — a form of house arrest, with the added deterrent that anyone could legally kill him and claim a reward A film still from "Götz von Berlichingen of the Iron Hand" (1979) But by 1514, Berlichingen was determined to escape his home of Burg Hornberg and so paid the required amount of gold to win his freedom. He swore a long and protracted oath never to cause trouble again. It didn't last. Two years later Götz of the Iron Hand was at it again, this time taking the Count of Waldeck hostage during an audacious raid and securing a massive ransom in the process. This resulted in another imperial ban in 1518. Villain, or victim of the times? Some see Berlichingen's aggressive sorties as the actions of a villain, but Jonas Hock, a Reformation historian based in Heidelberg, asks us to consider what was happening at the time. "Higher, more powerful nobles who wanted to centralise power" were banning the likes of Berlichingen "from resolving disputes with feuds," he says. "They instead would have to rely on the courts and could not get their way by force." Burg Hornberg in Baden-Württemberg where Götz von Berlichingen remained under house arrest "Having people with tremendous power run around and blow stuff up was getting out of hand, and this was an attempt to curtail that sort of behaviour,” Hock adds. It is therefore more helpful to think of Berlichingen as a dying breed than an especially violent or criminal sort. As Hock puts it: "Basically, feuding knights kept doing what they had always done, and largely got away with it. Until they didn't anymore.” Going straight? Berlichingen could sense the changing mood, and decided to go into the service of the Duke of Württemberg in 1519, defending the Duchy's interests before getting captured for a time. In 1525, when the German Peasants' War broke out, Berlichingen was forced to lead one of the rebel armies but soon deserted and instead retreated to his castle. He would later claim to be horrified by the peasant's excesses and joined the fight against them. But after Götz of the Iron Hand lead an imperial army that crushed a rebel brigade outside Würzburg, it wasn't enough to save him from those he'd crossed earlier. Following the war he spent some time as a prisoner in Augsburg before returning to house arrest. Born in 1922 in New York, Stanley Martin Lieber was at the center of the Marvel universe. Although he did not establish the publishing house, he was responsible for many of its superheroes — such as the Fantastic Four, Hulk, Iron Man and the X-Men — figures that often challenge heroic archetypes. The 2017 book "The Marvel Age of Comics 1961-1978" is the perfect introduction to Lee and his work. Written by Marvel author and editor Roy Thomas and published in several languages, the book traces Stan Lee's impact on global pop culture. Through its 400 pages, it draws readers into the world of "mighty heroes, misunderstood monsters and complex villains" in stories of fantasy, magic, and science fiction, mixing classical epic plots with modern narratives. Although the popularity of comics blockbusters has generated millions of new fans worldwide recently, the recently published volume intends to appease even Lee's hardcore devotes by including niche characters and stories from behind the scenes. Essays and special segments are dedicated not only to Stan "The Man" Lee but also his colleagues such as Jack "King" Kirby, who did this drawing in 1971. The book revolves around central Marvel characters: Spider-Man and the Fantastic Four, the Hulk and the X-Men. Large illustrations and many smaller image series represent the many superhero stories Marvel's drawers and writers serve up to a mostly — but not only — younger audience in comics and films. Along with Lee and Kirby, the comics artist and writer Steve Ditko was the third architect of the fantastical Marvel universe. This drawing is titled "The End ... At Last!" and is taken from the last Dr. Strange story Ditko created in July 1966. What was Stan Lee's own superpower? Perhaps his tireless attitude. The "founding father of American comics" was active until the end of his life. In 2017, he played minor roles in four movies based on his characters. In 2018 Lee made cameo appearances in "Deadpool 2" and the "Avengers" sequel. He died in November 2018 at the age of 95. Author: Jochen Kürten (jt) Avenger, Assemble! Approaching his sixties, Berlichingen might be forgiven for wanting to spend his old age in comfort. But when opportunity knocked in the 1540's it didn't take much convincing for the warrior to strap on the hand again. "The fact that the Emperor called upon him when he was already sixty, and even commuted his house arrest, which he had been sentenced to for his involvement in the Peasants' War, shows he was well respected as a military leader," Hock notes. Götz of the Iron Hand would serve both in Hungary and France, distinguishing himself alongside men half his age before returning home. He died peacefully in 1462, aged over eighty. Contested legacy Berlichingen's iron appendage, as well as his colorful career, might have been enough to secure his legacy. But fate wasn't done yet. In 1773, the writer and poet Goethe wrote "Götz Von Berlichingen," a play that has gone down as a classic. In its most memorable scene, Götz tells the besieging forces of the Emperor, "Er kann mich im Arsch lecken!" — basically, "He can kiss my arse!" The line is now dubbed the "Swabian Salute" and can be found on all manner of merchandise. Robert Downey Jr. (2nd left) plays Iron Man in the Marvel Studios 2017 blockbuster, "Avengers: Infinity War" When asked for reasons for Berlichingen's enduring popularity, Hock doesn't hesitate. "His knack for spin! At the end of his life, he dictated his autobiography to a scribe, presenting himself as favorably and as interesting as possible." So, definitely a shameless self-promoter. But a hero or a villain? It's probably not that simple. As Hock contends: "He was probably simply one of the very lucky ones. Unlike Franz von Sickingen (another famous knight), he got away with his lifestyle and managed to die at an old age." It's clear Berlichingen was a complex character but also the product of a fractious time, a figure who transcends good and evil stereotypes. In that regard, he's not so different from the contemporary Iron Man and leader of The Avengers, a superhero whose impregnable exterior betrays inner vulnerability. Leading the pack with box office earnings of $2.79 billion (2.27 billion euros) is "Avatar" by director James Cameron. Starring Sam Worthington, Zoe Saldana and Sigourney Weaver, the epic sci-fi film is set in a 22nd century mining colony on a moon called Pandora, and portrays a conflict with the original inhabitants, the Na'vi. Another box office smash for Cameron, "Titanic" has raked in $2.2 billion (1.8 billion euros) after multiple re-releases since it premiered nearly 20 years ago. The film, which dramatized the April 1912 sinking of the British passenger liner on its maiden voyage, saw a young Leonardo DiCaprio and Kate Winslet adopt the iconic pose pictured above. The seventh film in the Star Wars franchise made $2.06 billion (1.68 billion euros) at the box office following its much-hyped 2015 release. Produced and directed by J J Abrams, this was the first Star Wars movie not to involve the franchise's creator, George Lucas — the production company, Lucasfilm, was acquired by Disney in 2012. Another hit from 2015 (four of the top ten highest-grossing movies were released this year), the long-awaited sequel to Steven Spielberg's 1993 hit "Jurassic Park" earned nearly $1.7 billion (1.38 billion euros) worldwide. The sequel "Jurassic World: Fallen Kingdom" is due out in cinemas in June 2018. Some of Marvel comics' biggest names – from Captain America to the Hulk (above) – join forces in this superhero action film. The eclectic ensemble went down well with cinema audiences, who shelled out more than $1.5 billion (1.2 billion euros) to see the movie. The seventh installment in the "Fast and the Furious" franchise made $1.52 billion (1.24 billion euros) in cinemas — again following a 2015 release. After actor Paul Walker (left) died in a car crash, his brothers stood in for him on set so that filming could be completed. The "Avengers" sequel, which sees Iron Man, Captain America, Black Widow (above) and Thor reunited on screen, made $1.4 billion (1.14 billion euros) at the box office. Two additional sequels are planned, including "The Avengers: Infinity War," which is due in cinemas at the end of April 2018. More than 500 million of J K Rowling's Harry Potter books have been sold worldwide. Little wonder, then, that the final installment of the screen adaptation of the series about Potter's wizarding world made $1.34 billion (1.09 billion euros) at the box office. The second film in the Star Wars sequel trilogy was directed by Rian Johnson and starred the likes of Carrie Fisher, Adam Driver and Daisy Ridley (above). It made $1.32 billion (1.08 billion euros) in cinemas. J J Abrams will return to the director's chair for the final film in the trilogy, due for release in 2019. The newest addition to the top-ten list has so far earned $1.28 billion dollars (1.04 billion euros) at the box office since its release in February 2018, pushing Disney's 2013 hit "Frozen" into 11th place. The Black Panther is due to join other Marvel favorites in the next "Avengers" sequel, due for release in late April 2018. Author: Rachel Stewart