British Prime Minister Theresa May was in Germany mid-day on Tuesday for a meeting with Chancellor Angela Merkel. Her office in London said they agreed on "the importance of ensuring Britain's orderly withdrawal from the European Union." Barring some other agreement, most likely an extension, the UK would currently leave the EU without a deal on Friday night. May goes to meet French President Emmanuel Macron later in Paris. Macron has taken a more hard-line stance against a longer delay. Her visits are taking place one day before an emergency EU summit in Brussels, where an extension will be discussed. Her ministers at home have been holding talks with the opposition Labour party on the terms of the UK's departure. A tense Tuesday May met Chancellor Angela Merkel in Berlin for around an hour and a half. She arrived ahead of schedule and had to wait a few moments for Merkel to greet her at the red carpet, a symbolic slip that was widely reported. The German chancellor has expressed tolerance of a further extension if it is to achieve a successful outcome. Germany's state minister for Europe, Michael Roth, said Tuesday the conditions for a further extension have thus far not been met. He said the UK needs to show "substantial steps" towards resolving its political deadlock but said a no-deal Brexit would be the worst possible outcome. Roth's statement was seconded by both Dutch and French officials, who said May must present a clear reason as to why the EU should accept a further delay, and a plan for going forward. The EU's chief Brexit negotiator, Michel Barnier, also said the length of any delay will depend on the rationale May presents to the summit. Read more: British MPs vote against all alternative Brexit options What are the key clashes? Read more: Brexit: Why is the Irish backstop so controversial? Who is in control? On Monday the British Parliament passed a resolution giving lawmakers power to review and make binding changes to any extension request put forth by May. The Parliament is expected to vote Tuesday on May's proposed extension date of June 30. May has lost the support of her Conservative party, which is split over how to exit the EU. In a last-ditch attempt to get a deal passed, she reached out to the opposition Labour Party. Talks on Tuesday continue with the Labour party focused on: In an attempt to scrape together any support from her own party holdouts, May also promised to resign early should a withdrawal deal be negotiated. Read more: UK lawmakers pass bill to force Brexit delay to avoid no-deal exit Answer due from Brussels At Wednesday's summit, EU heads of state must unanimously ratify any further extension on the withdrawal agreement. cmb/jm (dpa, Reuters, AFP, AP) Each evening at 1830 UTC, DW's editors send out a selection of the day's hard news and quality feature journalism. You can sign up to receive it directly here.