Thousands of police documents related to Philippine President Duterte's war on drugs were ordered to be made public on Tuesday by the Philippine top court. Documents related to over 20,000 drug killings between July 2016 and November 2017 are to be handed over to two law firms that questioned the legality of the government's war on drugs. Human rights groups hope that the documents could reveal evidence of extrajudicial killings. Read more: Investigating Duterte's drug war in Philippines — facts and fiction Solicitor General Jose Calida had rigorously blocked the petition to release the documents, arguing that it would pose a risk to national security. A review of some documents, which were released to the Free Legal Assistance Group (FLAG), one of the petitioners in the case, showed a "strikingly similar description of the killings" across almost all documents prepared by police. In most cases, the suspect opened fire on police first, which resulted in a gunfight and the suspect's eventual death. "The data supports anecdotal evidence that we gathered from other sources about how cut-and-paste templates are being used in police reports," Jose Manuel Diokno, FLAG's Philippine chairperson, told a press conference on Thursday. Send  Facebook   Twitter   google+   Whatsapp   Tumblr   linkedin   stumble   Digg   reddit   Newsvine Permalink https://p.dw.com/p/3FYCy Diokno said that although a crackdown on narcotics was necessary, the way President Duterte's administration carried out the drug war needed to be questioned. "The whole point of this case is to question the way it (the war on drugs) is being done. Justice is coming from the barrel of gun rather than courts," Diokno added. Meanwhile, the government said it respects the court's order to release drug war documents. "We will always follow the rule of law. The Supreme Court has spoken," said Salvador Panelo, a spokesperson for President Duterte. Read more: Rappler CEO Maria Ressa says arrests intended to shut up news site Missing information The Center for International Law (CenterLaw), the other petitioner in the case, welcomed the top court's decision, calling it a partial but crucial triumph. In 2017, CenterLaw filed a case against police in San Andres Bukid, an urban slum area in Manila, on behalf of the concerned residents that alleged systematic violence and excessive force by the security forces. "These families were not even allowed to have copies of police reports that contained details about the death of their loved ones. This [the release of documents] is a small but an important victory for them," Cris Jandusay, a lawyer for CenterLaw, told DW. On a number of occasions, President Duterte has justified his administration's war on drugs. He even encouraged police to kill drug suspects, promising to protect them from the law. Mimi Garcia holds the pictures of her son Richard and daughter-in-law Robilyn who were killed by masked vigilantes on motorbikes at their shanty home in Camarin, Caloocan city, on October 7, 2016. She faces the daunting responsibility of taking care of her two grandchildren while being jobless at the same time. Andres Fernandez and his son Wesley rest at an altar inside the family home in Bagong Silang, Caloocan. On October 4, 2016, two armed men in masks went inside the Fernandez home and pointed a gun at Wesley. They made him kneel as Andres tried to help. They responded by shooting at Andres first before killing Wesley. One of the children of alleged pusher Kenneth Trasmano lights a candle during the wake of his father in Manila. Kenneth was killed in a police undercover operation after allegedly fighting back on February 2, 2018. His family and neighbors claim the police forced them to leave their homes and get out of sight, and thereafter heard the gunshots. A child holds the pictures of her deceased father Joseph and grandfather Marcelo. Marcelo was killed in a police operation inside their home on July 22, 2016. Her father was rounded up and taken by the police. His lifeless body was later found "salvaged" along a roadside. The picture shows letters written by children who have lost either one of their parents in the drug war, as part of their counselling session at Our Lady of Lourdes Parish in Camarin, Caloocan city. Family and friends walk the funeral procession of Rogelio Gilbuena and his common law wife Jenny Royo, who were both found dead (several hours apart) in different locations in Navotas city, Manila. Prior to their death, the couple were taken from their house in Navotas by 10 men who introduced themselves as police. Families of victims of drug-related extrajudicial killings offer flowers to their departed loved ones during the Holy Eucharistic Mass Action in Bagong Silang, Caloocan. Her husband Luis and her son, Gabriel, were killed in September 2016. During their burial, she was stoic. The days after she had laid them to rest were different. "I began looking for them and could not stop crying." MA nowadays attends protest rallies calling for a stop to drug-related killings and justice for those who have died. She hides her face as she doesn't want to be identified. Author: Raffy Lerma (Manila), Ana P. Santos (Manila), Rodion Ebbighausen "Our policemen do not fear lawsuits. They think only the president or the former police chief would be held accountable. But once we are able to analyze the case documents and see a pattern, we will identify the individuals responsible [for extrajudicial drug deaths]," Jandusay said. While the Supreme Court's order could be the beginning of accountability across all levels of the police force, Jandusay said the documents released to them were incomplete. At the same time, both FLAG and CenterLaw face a huge challenge in dealing with more than 20,000 case files. "We don't know how these documents will be released to us. Will they send a truck loaded with documents? We don't know. Nonetheless, we will prepare for that," Jandusay said. Read more: Rodrigo Duterte's deadly drug war — A Filipino mother's rage Dignity for the dead Sister Nenet Dano is one of the nuns involved in collecting testimonies from families and witnesses from the San Andres Bukid area. Dano also helped CenterLaw put together the Supreme Court petition. Dano told DW that the Supreme Court's decision offered hope to the victims' families. "The killings now have a face. Previously, the killings were just statistics. But these are real people with real families," she said. "Now the victims' families can see that irrespective of what was said about their loved ones, they still deserve dignity," said Dano. According to the nun, many families whose loved ones have been killed in Duterte's bloody drug war are planning to seek justice. The court's ruling, she adds, has given courage to more families to do the same. "We will continue our work with our community trainings on basic human rights so that the people will know what rights are promised to them by the country's law and how they can protect themselves. And as always, we will continue to pray," said Dano.