The European Union staunchly condemned the decision to strip opposition leader and self-declared President Juan Guaido of his parliamentary immunity on Thursday, joining other world leaders in criticizing the move. The Constituent Assembly, a body that was selected by acting President Nicolas Maduro, made the decision to remove his immunity earlier this week, paving the way for Guaido to be arrested and face trial. What the EU said: The EU's diplomatic chief Federica Mogherini made the statement on behalf of all 28 bloc members, saying: Read more: At Venezuela's Bolivar bridge, refugees begin an arduous journey Send  Facebook   Twitter   google+   Whatsapp   Tumblr   linkedin   stumble   Digg   reddit   Newsvine Permalink https://p.dw.com/p/3G9Xi Condemnation from world leaders On Wednesday, the German government released its own statement to condemn the move, saying that Berlin does not recognize resolutions made by the Constituent Assembly. Colombian President Ivan Duque also warned that any move by the Venezuelan government to arrest Guaido would spark a "firm multilateral response." Some experts doubt whether Maduro's government would take the step of arresting Guaido, saying they might be first looking to see how the international community reacts to stripping him of immunity. Crisis-stricken Guaido, who heads Venezuela's National Assembly, declared himself the country's interim president in a surprise announcement in January. The move was recognized by over 50 countries, including the United States and several EU member states. In the months since, Venezuela's economic and political crisis has continued to worsen — with a series of blackouts across the country recently leaving millions without water. Despite pressure from abroad, Maduro's government continues to enjoy support from Russia, China and Turkey as well as the country's military. Send  Facebook   Twitter   google+   Whatsapp   Tumblr   linkedin   stumble   Digg   reddit   Newsvine Permalink https://p.dw.com/p/3G0ZS rs/jil (AP, AFP, dpa, Reuters) Every evening, DW's editors send out a selection of the day's hard news and quality feature journalism. You can sign up to receive it directly here.