German Chancellor Angela Merkel called on Libyan strongman Khalifa Haftar to "immediately end" his offensive to capture Tripoli from the country's UN-backed government, chancellery spokesman Steffen Seibert said Thursday. Earlier this month, Haftar ordered his forces in eastern Libya to capture the capital, effectively torpedoing international efforts at a peace deal between the country's warring factions. Read more: Libya: The road from revolution to civil war What Merkel said: In a phone call with Libya's UN-backed leader, Fayez Sarraj, Merkel said: Forces loyal to Libya's UN-backed government has captured nearly 200 of Haftar's soldiers Deadly power struggle Despite international attempts at securing a ceasefire to allow civilians and the wounded to flee, Tripoli and its outskirts have been caught in the middle of intense fighting. Days after Haftar launched his brutal military campaign, the UN-backed government launched a counteroffensive. The World Health Organization said at least 56 people have been killed over the past week. Meanwhile, more than 190 eastern Libyan troops have been captured by forces loyal to the UN-backed government. Read more: World powers demand end to Libya military campaign EU divided France, which maintains good relations with Haftar, has reportedly blocked an EU statement calling on the Libyan general to end his offensive. Italy — which has been at diplomatic odds with France for months now — has called for a ceasefire, warning that there is a "likely risk of a worsening crisis in the coming hours." "It would be very serious if France for economic or commercial reasons had blocked an EU initiative to bring peace to Libya and would support a party that is fighting," Italian Interior Minister Matteo Salvini told RTL Radio. Read more: Can the EU and partners stabilize Libya? France is a key backed of Libyan strongman Haftar Who is Khalifa Haftar? Haftar is a former military officer who helped Gadhafi during a military-led coup in 1969. However, he later fell out of favor with the dictator. He enjoys widespread support in eastern Libya from several armed militias filled with battle-hardened fighters who made their names during the 2011 civil conflict. Every evening, DW's editors send out a selection of the day's hard news and quality feature journalism. You can sign up to receive it directly here. For more than 40 years, Moammar Gadhafi was the eccentric strongman in power in Libya. He was known for his odd behavior - and for his regime's ties to international terror groups. Libya was one of the countries swept up by the Arab Spring, and protests eventually turned into a civil war. Gadhafi fled but was eventually captured and killed In October, 2011. After Gadhafi fell, the eyes of the world were on Libya in the hope that the country would have a smooth transition to democracy. By July 2012, democratic parliamentary elections had taken place, but it proved to be a challenge for the country's politicians to form a coalition and compromise on issues that would bring further stability. Another problem facing Libya in the post-Gadhafi era was the rise of violent militias. While various armed groups did band together to topple the dictator, they did not have a common cause to rally around after his death. Instead, they fought each other. Terrorist groups were also on the rise in Libya, and staged a deadly attack on the US embassy in Benghazi on September 11, 2012. Political divisions became deeper in the years following Gadhafi's ouster. The UN-backed Government of National Accord (GNA) is the internationally-recognized authority in Libya, but several factions on the ground are claiming a hold on power. Jihadist groups including the so-called 'Islamic State' have gained a significant foothold in the country, making any progress precarious. At present, the Tripoli-based GNA controls parts of western and central Libya while Haftar's Libyan National Army holds much of the northeast. However, areas of power are constantly shifting due to ongoing "Islamic State" violence and the country's many different smaller factions. In recent weeks, Libya has reached out to NATO for assistance in strengthening the country's security institutions in an effort to end the power struggle between competing governments and militias. Leaders of two of the biggest groups - the GNA and the self-proclaimed Libyan National Army LNA - called for an end to the political and economic crises in the country. Author: Matt Zuvela ls/amp (dpa, Reuters, AP)