At least 29 people, most of them reported to be German nationals, died in a tourist bus accident on the Portuguese island of Madeira on Wednesday, authorities said. The bus carrying 55 people rolled down a steep hillside after veering off the road on a bend in Canico, the coastal town's mayor, Filipe Sousa, told reporters. The crash killed 28 passengers and injured 22 more, Sousa said. All the tourists in the bus were German, but some pedestrians may have been hit by the vehicle, he added. Sousa later said one of the passengers died in hospital, while the driver and a guide were injured but survived. Other members of the same group of German tourists were traveling in another bus, which was not involved in the accident, a regional civil protection spokesman told reporters. SAM, the transport company which owns the bus, said late Wednesday it will work with authorities to determine the cause of the crash. "It's our will and our determination that all the facts, reasons and responsibilities surrounding the accident are investigated," SAM wrote in a statement cited by Portuguese news agency Lusa. Confirmation from Berlin The Foreign Office in Berlin confirmed on Twitter that German tourists were among the victims. "We are shocked to learn of the tragic bus accident in Madeira. Unfortunately, we have to assume that there are victims from Germany. Our sympathies go out to their families and friends," the tweet read, which also had the number of a hotline with a Berlin area code. Portuguese Prime Minister Antonio Costa sent a message of condolences to German Chancellor Angela Merkel "at this difficult time." Madeira is a four-island archipelago located 935 kilometers (581 miles) off the coast of Morocco. It is one of two autonomous regions of Portugal — the Azores being the other — and attracts more than a million tourists annually. msh,dv/jm (AFP, AP, dpa) Every evening, DW's editors send out a selection of the day's hard news and quality feature journalism. You can sign up to receive it directly here.