The Sudanese military on Thursday removed President Omar al-Bashir in a coup following months of popular protests against his three decades of iron-fisted rule. Since mid-December, protesters have railed against a tripling of bread prices and an economic crisis that has led to a shortage of basic goods. The latest: Read more: 'The media is under siege in Sudan' Defense Minister Ahmed Awad Ibn Auf will head the transitional military council Divisive 'coup' Defense Minister Ibn Auf said: "I announce as minister of defense the toppling of the regime and detaining its chief in a secure place." However, protest organizers rejected the "coup conducted by the regime," saying: "We all reject what has been mentioned in the coup statement issued by the regime. We call on our people to continue their sit-in in front of army headquarters and across all regions and in the streets." Egypt, which is ruled by a strongman who orchestrated a coup against the country's first democratically elected president, said it supports its neighbor's military and the "Sudanese people's choice and will." Read more: Sudan Islamic clerics attack DW show 'Shabab Talk' It is unclear what fate awaits President Omar al-Bashir following his arrest New 'Arab spring'? For months, protesters rallied against rising food prices. But the protest movement quickly morphed into a sustained challenge against al-Bashir's rule. The protests have intensified since April 6 as thousands of demonstrators joined a sit-in outside army headquarters in Khartoum, which also houses al-Bashir's residence, calling for the president to step down. Read more: Anger over dictatorship, not bread, fueling Sudan uprising The protests against al-Bashir gained a boost last week after Algeria's ailing President Abdelaziz Bouteflika resigned in response to weeks of similar protests against his nearly 20-year rule. Despite the immediate jubilation around al-Bashir's downfall, the military intervention risks replacing one dictatorship with another, dashing protesters' hopes for a civilian government and opening the way for instability. Read more:Radio crosses borders in war-torn region Each evening at 1830 UTC, DW's editors send out a selection of the day's hard news and quality feature journalism. You can sign up to receive it directly here.