The British government said on Monday that it had taken the legal steps to participate in upcoming EU elections, while stressing that it was not "inevitable" that the UK would take part. "As a responsible government today we have taken the necessary steps required by law should we have to participate," a spokesman said in a statement. "It does not make these elections inevitable, as leaving the EU before the date of election automatically removes our obligation to take part." May's Conservative party seemed to be at pains to make clear that it would be participating only grudgingly: Currently, Britain is set to leave Europe on Friday, but Prime Minister Theresa May has asked that the deadline be pushed back a second time, until June 30th. Extension on the table On Monday, British lawmakers passed a new law forcing the government to ask EU leaders for a delay to prevent a no-deal Brexit. An extension would necessitate approval from all 27 EU leaders, many of whom have made it clear that they had had enough of Brexit uncertainty. French President Emmanuel Macron has accused the UK of holding Europe "hostage" to its domestic political crisis. May's draft Brexit deal has been rejected by UK parliament three times, and attempts at compromise with the opposition Labour party appear to be deadlocked. Labour has expressed a desire for a "softer" Brexit probably involving remaining in a customs union with the EU, and EU officials hinted on Monday that such a deal — if desired — could probably be accommodated. Read more: In a spin: Brexit spells trouble for UK vinyl industry After a shrill referendum campaign, nearly 52 percent of British voters opted to leave the EU on June 24. Polls had shown a close race before the vote with a slight lead for those favoring remaining in the EU. Conservative British Prime Minister David Cameron, who had campaigned for Britain to stay, acknowledged the "will of the British people" and resigned the following morning. Former Home Secretary Theresa May replaced David Cameron as prime minister on July 11 and promised the country that "Brexit means Brexit." May had quietly supported the Remain campaign before the referendum. She did not initially say when her government would trigger Article 50 of the EU treaty to start the two-year talks leading to Britain's formal exit. May eventually signed a diplomatic letter over six months later on March 29, 2017 to trigger Article 50. Hours later, Britain's ambassador to the EU, Tim Barrow, handed the note to European Council President Donald Tusk. Britain's exit was officially set for March 29, 2019. Tusk ended his brief statement on the decision with: "We already miss you. Thank you and goodbye." British Brexit Secretary David Davis and the EU's chief negotiator, Michel Barnier, kicked off talks in Brussels on June 19. The first round ended with Britain reluctantly agreeing to follow the EU's timeline for the rest of the negotiations. The timeline split talks into two phases. The first would settle the terms of Britain's exit, and the second the terms of the EU-UK relationship post-Brexit. The second round of talks in mid-July began with an unflattering photo of a seemingly unprepared British team. It and subsequent rounds ended with little progress on three phase one issues: How much Britain still needed to pay into the EU budget after it leaves, the post-Brexit rights of EU and British citizens and whether Britain could keep an open border between Ireland and Northern Ireland. Leaders of the remaining 27 EU members formally agreed that "sufficient progress" had been made to move on to phase two issues: the post-Brexit transition period and the future UK-EU trading relationship. While Prime Minister Theresa May expressed her delight at the decision, European Council President Tusk ominously warned that the second stage of talks would be "dramatically difficult." British ministers appeared to back a Brexit plan at May's Chequers residence on July 6. The proposal would have kept Britain in a "combined customs territory" with the EU and signed up to a "common rulebook" on all goods. That went too far for British Foreign Minister Boris Johnson and Brexit Secretary David Davis, who resigned a few days later. May replaced them with Jeremy Hunt and Dominic Raab. May's Chequers proposal did not go down well with EU leaders, who told her at a summit in Salzburg in late September that it was unacceptable. EU Council President Tusk trolled May on Instagram, captioning a picture of himself and May looking at cakes with the line: "A piece of cake perhaps? Sorry, no cherries." The gag echoed previous EU accusations of British cherry-picking. EU leaders endorsed a 585-page draft divorce deal and political declaration on post-Brexit ties in late November. The draft had been widely condemned by pro- and anti-Brexit lawmakers in the British Parliament only weeks earlier. Brexit Secretary Dominic Raab resigned along with several other ministers, and dozens of Conservative Party members tried to trigger a no-confidence vote in May. In the face of unrelenting opposition, May postponed a parliamentary vote on the deal on December 10. The next day, she met with German Chancellor Angela Merkel to seek reassurances that would, she hoped, be enough to convince skeptical lawmakers to back the deal. But while she was away, hard-line Conservative lawmakers triggered a no-confidence vote. May won the vote a day later. The UK Parliament voted 432 to 202 against May's Brexit deal on January 16. In response to the result, European Council President Donald Tusk suggested the only solution was for the UK to stay in the EU. Meanwhile, Britain's Labour Party called for a no-confidence vote in the prime minister, her second leadership challenge in as many months. May tried to get legal changes to the deal's so-called Irish backstop in the weeks that followed. She eventually got assurances that the UK could suspend the backstop under certain circumstances. But on March 12, Parliament voted against the revised Brexit deal by 391 to 242. EU leaders warned the vote increased the likelihood of a no-deal Brexit. Two days later, MPs voted to delay Brexit. The EU agreed to minor additions to the Irish backstop, but it wasn't enough. On March 12, Parliament voted again against the revised Brexit deal. After MPs voted to delay Brexit, EU leaders gave May two options: delay Brexit until May 22 if MPs vote for the withdrawal deal or delay it until April 12 if they vote against the deal. If the deal fails, May could ask for a long extension. Author: Alexander Pearson 'Existential threat' Elections for the European Parliament are due to begin on May 23 and end on May 26. The current deadline for leaving, this Friday, is seen by the EU as the latest point by which the UK would have to decide whether it was holding European elections or not. Some reports have suggested that the EU is likely to instead offer May a longer extension than her desired end-of-June date, again meaning the UK would have to take part in next month's vote. Speaking on BBC Radio 4 on Monday, Childrens' Minister Nahim Zahawi made it clear that the established parties were worried at the prospect of a European vote in the UK in the current climate. "I think going into the EU elections for the Conservative Party, or indeed for the Labour Party, and telling our constituents why we haven't been able to deliver Brexit I think would be an existential threat," Zahawi, who campaigned to leave, said. "I would go further and say it would be the suicide note of the Conservative Party." Read more: 'Endless soap called Brexit' Every evening, DW's editors send out a selection of the day's hard news and quality feature journalism. You can sign up to receive it directly here. ls,es/aw (AP, Reuters)