A human rights group on Monday called on Dubai's ruler to free a woman who was arrested for allegedly defamatory comments posted on Facebook in 2017. "I hope you go under the ground you idiot. Damn you. You left me for this horse," Laleh Shahravesh allegedly wrote in response to her ex-husband posting about marrying his second wife. "You married a horse you idiot." Shahravesh and her 14-year-old daughter, Paris, were arrested last month over the comment shortly shortly after arriving in the emirate of Dubai for her ex-husband's funeral, despite the comment being posted over three years ago. Dubai authorities had received a complaint at the time. Both were freed on bail, and Paris was allowed return to the UK, however 55-year-old Laleh was required to remain in Dubai pending a court case. The UK-based legal advocacy group Detained in Dubai appealed to the emirate's ruler and prime minister of the United Arab Emirates (UAE), Sheikh Mohammed bin Rashid Al Maktoum, to free Shahravesh so she could return to her daughter in London. Shahravesh told Sky News that she flew to the UAE after learning that her ex-husband had died of a heart attack. She was taking Paris to visit her father's grave, said Detained in Dubai CEO Radha Stirling. "Paris wanted to say goodbye to her father," she said. "We flew to Dubai where we were intending to stay for just five days, and were arrested immediately upon entry because Pedro's new wife [...] had reported my old Facebook post to the police," she told Sky News. Britain's foreign secretary, Jeremy Hunt, said that Shahravesh was "getting the best possible service" from British diplomats. Shahravesh is scheduled to make a second court appearance on Thursday and could face up to two years in prison or a £50,000 fine (€58,000, $65.000) if convicted. Repressing dissent In the aftermath of the 2011 Arab uprisings, the UAE has become increasingly repressive and public dissent has gone silent. It now has one of the world's highest rates of political prisoners per capita. Critics have also pointed to the UAE's tactic of holding dissidents in detention for extended periods of time before putting them on trial, apparently in hopes that the outside world might forget them. Read more: UAE jails rights activist Ahmed Mansoor over social media posts Whether in Berlin, London, Paris, Dubai or New York - skyscrapers and towers with views are popular places for photos in times of Instagram. Not only followers like spectacular views over a city. The TV Tower (368 metres) on Alexanderplatz is the tallest building in Germany. If the weather is fine, you can see up to 40 kilometres from the observation deck. One floor above there is a restaurant that turns on its own axis in half an hour. The Berlin Victory Column (1873) towers 69 metres above the Tiergarten. At the top of this historic vantage point in the German capital stands Victoria, the goddess of victory. The eight meter high figure is also called "Gold-Else". 285 steps lead up to the viewing platform at a height of 50 metres via a narrow spiral staircase. Around the Victory Column, car traffic rages on the place "Großer Stern", but the park landscape of the Tiergarten stretches all around. It is almost impossible to photograph the highest building in the world (828 meters high) in its entirety. The building has become a landmark for the United Arab Emirates. Who wants to enjoy the panorama from above, takes the lift up to 452 meters height. Since the opening in 2010, this view of downtown Dubai has been possible in principle. On many days, however, haze and dust obscure the view of Dubai Mall and Fountain Lake, which in the dark surprises visitors with illuminated fountains. In the skyline of the French capital, the Tour Montparnasse is an imposition for many. But the highest building of the French capital after the Eiffel Tower (300 meters) with a height of 210 meters offers the best view to all Parisian landmarks. The viewing platform is open daily from 09:30 - 23:30. We recommend the day/night ticket for 23 euros, which allows two visits within 48 hours. The terrace of the Paris skyscraper overlooking the Eiffel Tower is also a popular location for yoga classes. It is the highest building in New York and is also called Freedom Tower. Because here the National 9/11 Memorial commemorates the victims of the terrorist attack of 2001. This is where the World Trade Center with the Twin Towers used to stand. With the elevators (Sky Pods) it goes in 47 seconds to the 102nd floor. Here New York lies at one's feet. The viewing platform extends over three different levels. All visitors must pass through the security checkpoint. Only a small bag is allowed. There is no cloakroom or lockers on site. With the Stop'n Watch telescope you can take a look at the banking district of the Main metropolis. As Frankfurt's only high-rise building to date, it invites visitors to a viewing platform at a height of 200 metres. Frankfurt at night is a frequent photo motif. At #maintower you can find a selection of snapshots of the Main Tower visitors. The glass viewing platform under the top of the skyscraper "Shard" offers a unique view over the British capital on beautiful days. But the view to the Thames, the Tower Bridge, the City - the business centre or the famous power station of Battersea can also have a great attraction in light fog. Author: Ille Simon kw/msh (AP, AFP, dpa) Every evening, DW's editors send out a selection of the day's hard news and quality feature journalism. You can sign up to receive it directly here.