The German branch of environmental activist group Fridays for Future outlined their climate change policy goals at a press conference held on Monday in Berlin. The paper,  "Our demands for climate protection,"  seeks to put pressure on politicians to take quicker action to prevent continued global warming. Read more: Fridays for Future: The #Climatestrike movement comes of age Fridays for Future sprang up after 16-year-old Swedish high school student Greta Thunberg staged sit-ins in August 2018 in front of the Swedish parliament building every school day for three weeks. Thunberg inspired other young people around the world to organize protests every Friday, demanding their governments take action to limit global warming under the 1.5 degree Celsius limit specified in the UN's Paris climate agreement. Fridays for Future said that its paper was drawn up with input from groups of students from across Germany in coordination with climate scientists. The activists said that student strikes would continue until their demands were met. What are the activists demanding in Germany Half of the targets set by the group are for the longer term: Meanwhile, the group has also suggested three immediate changes, to be implemented in 2019: Ambitious climate goals The activists said that their climate goals for Germany would need to be achieved in a "socially acceptable" manner and "in no way put a one-sided burden on lower-income people." Read more: 'We can make a difference': Voices of school climate strikers from around the world Activist Linus Steinmetz told reporters on Monday that the movement's goal was to influence the "the highest levels" of politics. The platform also called for coordinated political action on local and national levels.  Industries including energy production, transport, construction and agriculture would need to make an "enormous effort" to avoid "climate catastrophe." "We have social and political influence and our movement has reached an unimaginable size," said Steinmetz. Although the movement welcomes more political recognition, the activists say they do not want to be appropriated for political advantages. "We have been praised by many politicians," said activist Sebastian Grieme. "However, that hasn't resulted in any concrete action. That is wrong and false." Each evening at 1830 UTC, DW's editors send out a selection of the day's hard news and quality feature journalism. You can sign up to receive it directly here. Send  Facebook   Twitter   google+   Whatsapp   Tumblr   linkedin   stumble   Digg   reddit   Newsvine Permalink https://p.dw.com/p/3FSYB