The UN Security Council on Tuesday adopted a watered-down, German-drafted resolution on sexual violence in conflicts, after last-minute amendments were added to appease the United States. The United States had threatened a veto due to references to "sexual and reproductive health care" for survivors of rape and abuse in wartime, saying the wording amounted to support for abortion. Read more: Angelina Jolie and Germany's Maas demand action on sexual violence The vote passed 13-0, with veto-wielding permanent members Russia and China abstaining, after Germany was forced to bow to the US pressure and remove the text on sexual and reproductive health. Send  Facebook   Twitter   google+   Whatsapp   Tumblr   linkedin   stumble   Digg   reddit   Newsvine Permalink https://p.dw.com/p/3HJ15 Punishing perpetrators Despite the weakened text, German Foreign Minister Heiko Maas said the resolution would facilitate the punishment of perpetrators of sexual violence, including applying sanctions, and supporting victims. Maas said that the resolution brought victims to the center of attention. "The resolution calls on all UN member states to support victims through better access to justice, medical and psychological assistance and reintegration into society," he said. Read more: Syria's sexual violence survivors seek justice The resolution also draws attention to victims of sexual violence who have too often been ignored, he said, including men, boys, mothers and children. Send  Facebook   Twitter   google+   Whatsapp   Tumblr   linkedin   stumble   Digg   reddit   Newsvine Permalink https://p.dw.com/p/3C9WC France criticizes US position The US position drew criticism from other Security Council members, with France's Ambassador Francois Delattre saying he was "appalled" by the US demand. It is "inexplicable that access to sexual and reproductive health is not explicitly recognized for victims of sexual violence, who are often the targets of atrocious acts of violence and barbaric mutilation," he told the 15-member body. Foreign Minister Heiko Maas is chairing the UN Security Council during Germany's presidency of the body in April What does the resolution state? The resolution expressed concern at "the slow progress" in addressing sexual abuse in conflicts, which occur with impunity "and in some situations have become systematic and widespread, reaching appalling levels of brutality." It also urges providing justice for victims, but under pressure from the United States references to the International Criminal Court (ICC) in prosecuting suspected perpetrators of sexual violence were eliminated. The United States is not a member of the ICC out of concern for the sovereignty of US courts and the prospect of war crimes cases being opened against US soldiers and officials. Read more: How does the International Criminal Court answer criticisms that it is illegitimate? Send  Facebook   Twitter   google+   Whatsapp   Tumblr   linkedin   stumble   Digg   reddit   Newsvine Permalink https://p.dw.com/p/36BdZ Nobel Peace Prize winners slam global inaction Nobel Peace Prize laureates Nadia Murad and Denis Mukwege called for justice for victims of sexual violence. Speaking at the UN before the vote, they condemned the international organization's failure to act. "Not a single person has been charged for sexual slavery," said Murad in reference to the massacres and enslavement of her Yazidi community by the "Islamic State" group in Iraq and Syria. UN Secretary General Antonio Guterres, human rights lawyer Amal Clooney, Nobel Peace Prize laureate Nadia Murad and German Foreign Minister Heiko Maas cw/jm (dpa, epd) Every evening, DW sends out a selection of the day's news and features. Sign up here.