Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu said on Saturday that if he secured another term in office, he would move to annex Jewish settlements in the West Bank. The remark came ahead of nationwide elections in Israel that will take place next week. "I won't clear a single settlement. And I will naturally ensure that we control the area west of the Jordan River," Netanyahu said during an interview with Israeli television. Netanyahu has promoted Jewish settlement expansion into the territory during his four terms as prime minister, but he had stopped short of saying he would annex settlements, until now. Turkish outrage Turkey's foreign minister on Sunday said the West Bank was Palestinian territory and Israel's occupation violated international law. "Prime Minister Netanyahu’s irresponsible statement to seek votes just before the Israeli general elections cannot and will not change this fact," Mevlut Cavusoglu said. Turkish government spokesman Ibrahim Kalin tweeted: "Will Western democracies react or will they keep appeasing? Shame on them all!" Read more: Ultranationalists to play kingmakers after Israeli election Two-state solution in danger The West Bank has been occupied by Israel since the 1967 Six-Day War. Nearly 3 million Palestinians live in the territory, along with hundreds of thousands of Jewish Israelis who have settled there over the years. Palestinians hope to build a state out of the West Bank territory if a two-state solution is ever achieved in the conflict. Many countries around the world have sided with Palestinians in deeming Jewish settlements in the West Bank to be illegal under the Geneva Conventions, which have barred settling on land that was captured in war. The debate over settlements remains one of the most difficult issues in efforts to restart Israeli-Palestinian peace talks, which have been frozen since 2014. Annexation of the West Bank would likely further hinder peace efforts and deal a blow to proponents of a two-state solution. Read more: Faith and foreign policy: Brazil's Bolsonaro in Israel before election Send  Facebook   Twitter   google+   Whatsapp   Tumblr   linkedin   stumble   Digg   reddit   Newsvine Permalink https://p.dw.com/p/3GKUt Facing reelection Polls show that the race for prime minister will be close. But still, Netanyahu's Likud Party is expected to have a better chance of forming a ruling coalition than his opponent Benny Gantz of the centrist Blue and White party. Netanyahu has cast Gantz as a choice that would endanger Israel's security, as it would result in territorial concessions to the Palestinians. The US State Department declined to comment on Netanyahu's statement about the West Bank, and President Donald Trump remained neutral, saying the vote was "gonna be close" and it featured "two good people." But the Trump administration has boosted Netanyahu's electoral campaign with two major policy decisions: the recognition of Jerusalem as Israel's capital and last month's recognition of Israeli sovereignty over the Golan Heights. On Saturday, Netanyahu portrayed these US policy changes as his own achievements, saying he had personally persuaded Trump to take these steps. Read more: 'Deal of the century': US pushes Israeli-Palestinian plan Each evening at 1830 UTC, DW's editors send out a selection of the day's hard news and quality feature journalism. You can sign up to receive it directly here. United Nations Security Council Resolution 242, passed on November 22, 1967, called for the exchange of land for peace. Since then, many of the attempts to establish peace in the region have referred to 242. The resolution was written in accordance with Chapter VI of the UN Charter, under which resolutions are recommendations, not orders. A coalition of Arab states, led by Egypt and Syria, fought Israel in the Yom Kippur or October War in October 1973. The conflict eventually led to the secret peace talks that yielded two agreements after 12 days. This picture from March 26, 1979, shows Egyptian President Anwar Sadat, his US counterpart Jimmy Carter and Israeli Prime Minister Menachem Begin after signing the accords in Washington. The US and the former Soviet Union came together to organize a conference in the Spanish capital city of Madrid. The discussions involved Israel, Jordan, Lebanon, Syria, and Palestinians — not from the Palestinian Liberation Organization (PLO) — who met with Israeli negotiators for the first time. While the conference achieved little, it did create the framework for later, more productive talks. The negotiations in Norway between Israel and the PLO, the first direct meeting between the two parties, resulted in the the Oslo I Accord. The agreement was signed in the US in September 1993. It demanded that Israeli troops withdraw from West Bank and Gaza and a self-governing, interim Palestinian authority be set up for a five-year transitional period. A second accord was signed in 1995. US President Bill Clinton invited Israeli Prime Minister Ehud Barak and PLO Chairman Yasser Arafat to the retreat in July 2000 to discuss borders, security, settlements, refugees and Jerusalem. Despite the negotiations being more detailed than ever before, no agreement was concluded. The failure to reach a consensus at Camp David was followed by renewed Palestinian uprising, the Second Intifada. The Camp David negotiations were followed first by meetings in Washington and then in Cairo and Taba, Egypt — all without results. Later the Arab League proposed the Arab Peace Initiative in Beirut in March 2002. The plan called on Israel to withdraw to pre-1967 borders so that a Palestinian state could be set up in the West Bank and Gaza. In return, Arab countries would agree to recognize Israel. The US, EU, Russia and the UN worked together as the Middle East Quartet to develop a road map to peace. While Palestinian Prime Minister Mahmoud Abbas accepted the text, his Israeli counterpart Ariel Sharon had more reservations with the wording. The timetable called for a final agreement on a two-state solution to be reached in 2005. Unfortunately, it was never implemented. In 2007 US President George W. Bush hosted a conference in Annapolis, Maryland, to relaunch the peace process. Israeli Prime Minister Ehud Olmert and Palestinian Authority President Mahmoud Abbas took part in talks with officials from the Quartet and over a dozen Arab states. It was agreed that further negotiations would be held with the goal of reaching a peace deal by the end of 2008. In 2010, US Middle East Envoy George Mitchell convinced Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu to agree to and implement a ten-month moratorium on settlements in disputed territories. Later, Netanyahu and Abbas agreed to relaunch direct negotiations to resolve all issues. Negotiations began in Washington in September 2010, but within weeks there was a deadlock. A new round of violence broke out in and around Gaza late 2012. A ceasefire was reached between Israel and those in power in the Gaza Strip, which held until June 2014. The kidnapping and murder of three Israeli teenagers in June 2014 resulted in renewed violence and eventually led to the Israeli military operation Protective Edge. It ended with a ceasefire on August 26, 2014. Envoys from over 70 countries gathered in Paris, France, to discuss the conflict between Israelis and Palestinians. Netanyahu slammed the discussions as "rigged" against his country. Neither Israeli nor Palestinian representatives attended the summit. "A two-state solution is the only possible one," French Foreign Minister Jean-Marc Ayrault said at the opening of the event. Despite the year's optimistic opening, 2017 brought further stagnation in the Israeli-Palestinian peace process. A deadly summer attack on Israeli police at the Temple Mount, a site holy to both Jews and Muslims, sparked deadly clashes. Then US President Donald Trump's plan to move the embassy to Jerusalem prompted Palestinian leader Abbas to say "the measures ... undermine all peace efforts." Author: Aasim Saleem jcg/jm (AFP, AP, dpa, Reuters)