For the first time, the world might have a vaccine for one of the world's biggest killers — malaria. This week, a pilot program of the new vaccine, called RTS,S, rolls out in Malawi. After the rollout, vaccination will begin in Ghana and Kenya next week. It's estimated that 360,000 children will be given the vaccine annually. But although it's big news, the work of malaria scientists isn't over yet. "RTS,S is the best [vaccine] we have developed so far — it shows vaccination is possible — but the efficacy is simply not good enough," Peter Kremsner, Director of the Institute of Tropical Medicine at the University of Tübingen told DW. The vaccine, which has been developed over three decades, has shown to prevent only about 30 percent of severe malaria cases in clinical trials. This is comparatively low when compared to other vaccines, like the measles vaccine which has a 97 percent success rate. The World Health Organization (WHO) hopes to one day achieve a malaria vaccine with an efficacy rate of 75 percent or more. Read more: The most dangerous mosquito-borne diseases Prof. Kremsner is discussing test results with a colleague in Gabon RTS,S is also limited because it's protective effect decreases considerably within four years. This is because the vaccine uses a single protein of the malaria pathogen Plasmodium falciparum (which occurs most frequently in Africa) to direct the immune system against the parasite. However, an immune reaction to only one protein of the pathogen also means that the immune system repeatedly escapes intruders and malaria occurs anyway. In addition to Plasmodium falciparum, there are other malaria pathogens against which the RTS,S vaccine does not work. Why do I need a vaccination? Thousands of people still die of malaria every year. In 2017, 435,000 people succumbed to the disease worldwide, most of them children under the age of five. More than 90 percent of malaria deaths occur on the African continent. And after widespread use of preventative treatments drove malaria cases down significantly, the World Health Organization (WHO) has reported a slight increase over the last two years. "It seems that we have exhausted the previous methods of malaria control," tropical physician Benjamin Mordmüller, from the University of Tübingen, told DW. "The tools we can use today don't seem to be able to provide a further reduction in the number of cases." Fighting malaria is going to require new tools — and an effective vaccine seems increasingly promising. Read more: First new malaria treatment in decades receives green light Anopheles mosquitos transmit the malaria parasite Why has it taken so long? The malaria pathogen is caused by a parasite, not a bacterium or virus, as is the case with many other infectious diseases. This parasite undergoes a complex life cycle with different stages, both in mosquitoes and in humans. This is why it's been particularly difficult to teach the human immune system how to recognize and fight the malaria parasite. "Scientists have been trying for 50 years to isolate the individual surface structures of the malaria parasite — so-called antigens — to develop a vaccine. However, all potential vaccine candidates have failed," Kremsner said. An entirely different approach Scientists at the Institute of Tropical Medicine in Tübingen have now opted for a different approach that they hope will be more successful than the RTS,S vaccine — a live vaccine in which the real pathogen is injected. "Previously, this was not possible with such a complicated pathogen as malaria," Mordmüller, who is involved in the research project, explained. With the support of the biotech company Sanaria in the US, the researchers have succeeded in breeding large quantities of the malaria parasite in the laboratory. These sporozoites are frozen and form the basis for the new live vaccine. Read more: Vector-borne diseases: Climate change's role in spreading them How does it work? In this new vaccine, which was co-developed by the Tübingen researchers, the sporozoites are attenuated with radioactive radiation before they are injected as a vaccine. This means that the malaria pathogen can survive long enough in the human body to engender a reaction from the immune system, but dies before it can make the vaccinated person ill. In Tübingen, this new form of malaria vaccination has already been successfully tested on healthy patients "with very high efficacy," promises Kremsner. The advantage of this approach over the RTS,S vaccine is that the immune system now reacts to the entire parasite, not only to a single protein, which increases its effectiveness. Who could be protected by the new vaccine? Kremsner is certain the new vaccine will be available in a few years' time as a vaccination for travellers in malaria-prone areas. Currently, the researchers are trying to find out whether it could be as effective in Africa. They expect to know more at the end of this year when the initial results from an ongoing Phase II study with children in Gabon are available. "Everything is looking very good at the moment. I would never have said that with RTS,S," said Kremsner, a tropical physician who was also involved in the approval process of RTS,S. People killed each year: around ten. Sharks and wolves scare many people. And there is no doubt that wolves and some shark species can kill you. But very few of them actually do. Each year there are only around ten deaths caused by either species throughout the world. You have a bigger chance of being killed by your toaster. People killed each year: around 100. That you could be killed by a lion doesn't seem far-fetched and it does happen. Perhaps more surprising is that your chances of falling victim to an elephant are just as high. The world's largest land animal can be quite aggressive and once it becomes enraged, it certainly has the mass and strength to be dangerous. People killed each year: around 500. There are countless children's toys in the shape of hippos and why wouldn't there be? They look cute with their puffy snouts and stocky builds. And they are herbivores. But don't let that fool you. They are territorial and quite aggressive and don't need provocation to come after you, so steer clear if you can. People killed each year: around 1,000. Many people are probably just as scared of crocodiles as they are of sharks or lions and rightfully so. Crocodiles are carnivores and kill prey sometimes much larger than themselves including small hippos, water buffalo and, in the case of saltwater crocodiles, even sharks. People killed each year: around 2000. Tapeworms are parasitic flatworms that live in the digestive tracts of all sorts of vertebrates ranging from whales to mice, and humans as well. They usually find their way into our bodies as eggs or larvae via contaminated food. The infection can be treated with medication but the parasites still kill 200 times as many people as sharks do. People killed each year: around 2,500. Ascaris worms are another parasite contracted in a way similar to tapeworms. But they don't stay in the intestinal tract. Once the eggs hatch, they burrow through the gut wall, travel to the lungs, up the windpipe, are coughed up and swallowed again to return to the intestine where they grow into adults. Ascariasis affects around 1 billion people worldwide. People killed each year: around 10,000. Tied in fifth place are three killers with a death toll of 10,000 each. Although to be fair, it's not the animals that are the killers here, but the parasites they carry. Schistosomiasis can be contracted from contaminated water, Chagas disease and sleeping sickness through insect bites. So make sure to bring bug repellant when you visit affected areas. People killed each year: around 25,000. Rabies is a viral infection that can be contracted from many different animals but in countries where rabies is common among dogs, humans get it from them in 99 percent of cases. And rabies is sneaky. It can take months for symptoms to show and when they do, the disease is almost always fatal. The good news is that both dogs and humans can be vaccinated. People killed each year: around 50,000. Yes: In case of doubt, steer clear of snakes. Many species aren't deadly, some aren't venomous at all but there are enough deadly snakes to make these reptiles the world's third biggest killer. People killed each year: around 475,000. Yes, we made the list, too. After all, we are incredibly creative when it comes to finding ways to kill each other. This earns us the sad honor of second place amongst the killers of man. People killed each year: around 725,000. In places like Germany, they are just a nuisance, elsewhere they can be harbingers of death. And again it is the diseases they carry, not the animals themselves that kill. Malaria alone kills about 600,000 people a year. Dengue fever, yellow fever and encephalitis are transmitted by mosquitoes too, making the tiny insects the world's biggest killers.