"Dear God, please give my father the strength to die and protect my son in Afghanistan." "May everyone who suffers from cancer have God on their side." "Thank you for this man at my side." The sentiments expressed in the prayer request books at chapels along the German autobahn provide a glimpse into the German soul. Some express gratitude, while others focus on fears, illnesses, catastrophes or career worries. A community is growing from the visitors who seek a break from driving in the churches along German highways. "This church is like a tent, like a safe room where I am protected from everything," 19-year-old Katharina (not her real name) said, after visiting a highway church in the Siegerland region of North Rhine-Westphalia. "I come here whenever I have worries," she said. Read more:  ECJ opinion sides against Austria over German autobahn toll Gerhard Sauer, who lives nearby, appreciates the evening prayer services. "I sometimes come here alone," he said, "but I really like the short prayer services." The Siegerland highway church first opened its doors in 2013. Some 2,000 believers come here each month. Together, they have already filled 11 prayer request books. Gas, food ... glory? Contemplative worshippers Judging by these books, Germans tend to record their fears and what they are thankful for, said Ute Pohl, who heads the Siegerland highway church support group. "People tend to be contemplative," she said. Many visitors study the prayer records with great interest and occasionally add thoughts of their own. Alessia, whose boyfriend broke up with her, often comes to a motorway church near Cologne to write down her feelings. She wants her boyfriend to come back to her. And pens a note to God: "Dear God, today I wanted to come here with positive feelings, but can you please make Stefan believe in our relationship again?" Read more: German government rules out autobahn speed limit Holy Ghost's help Pohl is familiar with notes concerning relationships. "People who write these requests are hoping to be heard," she said. "Let's hope the holy ghost will come to their aid," she added. About 1 million people per year visit motorway churches. The very first church of this kind was inaugurated in 1958 near Augsburg, Bavaria. Meanwhile, Germany boats 47 places of worship along the motorway. And such churches can also be found in Austria and Switzerland. There is no central authority planning the construction of such churches. Instead, this is a grassroots process lead by citizens, associations and local church congregations. As was the case for the motorway church in the Siegerland region. A study by the Catholic University of Applied Sciences Freiburg found that most worshippers spend no more than five to 10 minutes at motorway churches, and that most were already members of congregations, older than 50, married and residents of Germany. Send  Facebook   Twitter   google+   Whatsapp   Tumblr   linkedin   stumble   Digg   reddit   Newsvine Permalink https://p.dw.com/p/1EAEE Winding down roadside The study found that worshippers appreciate the anonymity of roadside churches. And that those who had pulled in once to pray tended to do so again. Most did not even mind the absence of a priest. In fact, they tended to enjoy the solitude, light a candle and quietly pray. Herbert (not his real name) is a trucker and often goes to motorway churches. At least twice a week he puts in a quick stop at the Protestant roadside church near the city of Wiesbaden. He says it helps him "wind down." "A friend taught me to light candles in church in honor of friends and fellow citizens," he said. After a moment of silence, he added that, although he is no longer in touch with her, the ritual has stuck with him. The only European country without a general speed limit on most parts of its highways, Germany has an excellent system of motorways. They are generally well-maintained, inviting you to explore them. The minimum age for obtaining a driver's license used with a legal guardian present in Germany is 17. An unrestricted car driver's license can be granted at age 18. According to statistics by ADAC, Germany's national automobile association, traffic jams increased by around 15 percent in 2016 as compared to the previous year. That's a lot for a relatively small country. The increase resulted from both more cars on the highway, and more construction sites. So brace yourself for more time and stress in the car, especially around big cities. Even when you think you're soaring down the autobahn, you may get the distinct impression it's still not fast enough. Some German drivers may drive right up behind you and try to "push" you over. They may even flash their headlights to rattle your nerves. You aren't supposed to block the "fast" lane — the aim being to only use it for passing. But don't let pushy drivers bully you! Watch out for speed cameras! They are used widely in Germany, from the autobahn to inner city areas. These box-shaped devices are installed next to the road, and will often catch you unawares. Should you be driving over the speed limit, a ticket will be sent to your house, complete with a picture of you at the wheel and the license plate confirming your offense. Holding a cell phone in your hand while driving is an absolute no-no. If caught, you could be fined 100 euros ($124) and get a one-point penalty against your driver's license. Penalties spike up if you cause an accident, and you may have your license revoked. Fines were raised in 2017. Investing in a hands-free car kit is smarter. Penalties also apply to bicyclists using their cell phones. The same thing goes for not making way for emergency vehicles. Once traffic jams up, you are required to create a lane for ambulances and police, even before you see the flashing lights behind you. If not, you could be fined at least 200 euros (around $250) and get points on your license. The emergency lane is always between the far left and the rest of the lanes. You are also required to set up a warning signal should you break down or have an accident. This means placing an orange metal triangle on the road, donning a fluorescent jacket, both of which you must have in your car. You must also have a first-aid kit stored in your vehicle. In Germany, there's zero tolerance for beginners, as well as for professional drivers. There's a 0.05 percent blood alcohol content (BAC) limit to driving under the influence. Bicyclists may not exceed 0.16 percent. Penalties start at a €500 ($623) fine, points off your license and even a one-month license suspension. Best bet: don't drink and drive! Snow tires are required once streets become slick with slush, ice or snow. In Germany, the rule of thumb is that this can occur anytime between October and Easter. Should you not have snow tires installed on your car and still drive on slippery streets, you could be fined and have points taken off your license. Without proper snow tires, your insurance may also not cover an accident. To navigate both the German autobahn and city streets, the best approach is a zen one: take your time and don't let yourself get frazzled. Besides, with an expansive train and public transportation system in the country, you might not even want to hop into your car, but board a train and put up your feet! Author: Louisa Schaefer At 1830 UTC, DW's editors send out a selection of news and features. Sign up to receive it here.