German President Frank-Walter Steinmeier on Saturday defended the decision to postpone Brexit for six months, but called for the British parliament to approve the withdrawal agreement by May 23. Steinmeier told the German Süddeutsche Zeitung newspaper it was "important to do everything to limit the negative consequences" of Britain's departure from the European Union. Warning that Brexit "cannot become an endless horror story," he added that he was skeptical about the country's participation in the European parliamentary elections next month. "That is why it would be best if a constructive majority in the British parliament quickly came to an exit agreement before the elections," Steinmeier added. Read more: Despite Brexit delay, UK issues new passports without 'EU' label Send  Facebook   Twitter   google+   Whatsapp   Tumblr   linkedin   stumble   Digg   reddit   Newsvine Permalink https://p.dw.com/p/3GaW5 Fourth vote soon? EU leaders this week granted Britain an extension until the end of October, but said the country could leave earlier if it agreed on a withdrawal deal. British Prime Minister Theresa May has failed on three occasions to get parliamentary approval for the formal process by which the country quits the bloc. But May has repeatedly stated that Brexit could happen before Europeans vote for their Members of the European Parliament (MEPs) between May 23-26. After a shrill referendum campaign, nearly 52 percent of British voters opted to leave the EU on June 24. Polls had shown a close race before the vote with a slight lead for those favoring remaining in the EU. Conservative British Prime Minister David Cameron, who had campaigned for Britain to stay, acknowledged the "will of the British people" and resigned the following morning. Former Home Secretary Theresa May replaced David Cameron as prime minister on July 11 and promised the country that "Brexit means Brexit." May had quietly supported the Remain campaign before the referendum. She did not initially say when her government would trigger Article 50 of the EU treaty to start the two-year talks leading to Britain's formal exit. May eventually signed a diplomatic letter over six months later on March 29, 2017 to trigger Article 50. Hours later, Britain's ambassador to the EU, Tim Barrow, handed the note to European Council President Donald Tusk. Britain's exit was officially set for March 29, 2019. Tusk ended his brief statement on the decision with: "We already miss you. Thank you and goodbye." British Brexit Secretary David Davis and the EU's chief negotiator, Michel Barnier, kicked off talks in Brussels on June 19. The first round ended with Britain reluctantly agreeing to follow the EU's timeline for the rest of the negotiations. The timeline split talks into two phases. The first would settle the terms of Britain's exit, and the second the terms of the EU-UK relationship post-Brexit. The second round of talks in mid-July began with an unflattering photo of a seemingly unprepared British team. It and subsequent rounds ended with little progress on three phase one issues: How much Britain still needed to pay into the EU budget after it leaves, the post-Brexit rights of EU and British citizens and whether Britain could keep an open border between Ireland and Northern Ireland. Leaders of the remaining 27 EU members formally agreed that "sufficient progress" had been made to move on to phase two issues: the post-Brexit transition period and the future UK-EU trading relationship. While Prime Minister Theresa May expressed her delight at the decision, European Council President Tusk ominously warned that the second stage of talks would be "dramatically difficult." British ministers appeared to back a Brexit plan at May's Chequers residence on July 6. The proposal would have kept Britain in a "combined customs territory" with the EU and signed up to a "common rulebook" on all goods. That went too far for British Foreign Minister Boris Johnson and Brexit Secretary David Davis, who resigned a few days later. May replaced them with Jeremy Hunt and Dominic Raab. May's Chequers proposal did not go down well with EU leaders, who told her at a summit in Salzburg in late September that it was unacceptable. EU Council President Tusk trolled May on Instagram, captioning a picture of himself and May looking at cakes with the line: "A piece of cake perhaps? Sorry, no cherries." The gag echoed previous EU accusations of British cherry-picking. EU leaders endorsed a 585-page draft divorce deal and political declaration on post-Brexit ties in late November. The draft had been widely condemned by pro- and anti-Brexit lawmakers in the British Parliament only weeks earlier. Brexit Secretary Dominic Raab resigned along with several other ministers, and dozens of Conservative Party members tried to trigger a no-confidence vote in May. In the face of unrelenting opposition, May postponed a parliamentary vote on the deal on December 10. The next day, she met with German Chancellor Angela Merkel to seek reassurances that would, she hoped, be enough to convince skeptical lawmakers to back the deal. But while she was away, hard-line Conservative lawmakers triggered a no-confidence vote. May won the vote a day later. The UK Parliament voted 432 to 202 against May's Brexit deal on January 16. In response to the result, European Council President Donald Tusk suggested the only solution was for the UK to stay in the EU. Meanwhile, Britain's Labour Party called for a no-confidence vote in the prime minister, her second leadership challenge in as many months. May tried to get legal changes to the deal's so-called Irish backstop in the weeks that followed. She eventually got assurances that the UK could suspend the backstop under certain circumstances. But on March 12, Parliament voted against the revised Brexit deal by 391 to 242. EU leaders warned the vote increased the likelihood of a no-deal Brexit. Two days later, MPs voted to delay Brexit. Following the second defeat of May's divorce deal, the European Council met in Brussels on March 21 to decide what to do next. EU leaders gave May two options: delay Brexit until May 22 if MPs vote for the withdrawal deal or delay it until April 12 if they vote against the deal. If the deal were to fail again in Parliament, May could ask for a long extension. On March 29, the day that the UK was supposed to leave the EU, British lawmakers voted for a third time against May's deal — rejecting it this time with a vote of 344 to 286. Following the latest defeat, May approached the main opposition Labour leader Jeremy Corbyn in an attempt to find a compromise, angering hardline Brexiteers in her own Conservative party. With the April 12 deadline looming after the third defeat of May's deal, EU leaders met again in Brussels to discuss a second delay. The only question was how long should it be? In the end, the UK and EU agreed to a "flexible" extension until October 31 — which can end sooner if the Brexit deal is approved. If the deal isn't ratified by May 22, the UK would have to take part in European elections. Author: Alexander Pearson During the newspaper interview, Steinmeier admitted that the political crisis in Britain was "less and less understandable and more difficult to explain." "Nevertheless, we must be clear: Brexit is a deep cut with enormous consequences — for Britain, but also for the Europe of the 27 [remaining members]," he said. EU vote faces disruption European leaders are growing increasingly anxious about Britain's participation in the vote as their MEPs may only sit in parliament for just a few months. There are also concerns that pro-Brexit politicians could help boost the fortunes of other euroskeptic and anti-establishment parties across several EU countries. On Friday, leading British euroskeptic Nigel Farage launched the Brexit Party in anticipation of the country's possible participation in the vote. Read more: Meet the man who negotiated trade for both the UK and the EU Meanwhile, the United Kingdom Independence Party (UKIP) — which campaigned for the UK's exit — confirmed this week it has set aside half a million pounds (€578,000 $655,000) to send leaflets to 27 million British households. On Saturday, the German news agency Deutsche Presse-Agentur warned that Russia was again seeking to influence the EU vote, citing European intelligence agencies. DPA said that young people were being targeted in particular on social media as part of an attempt to stifle voter turnout. Moscow has been blamed for influencing the 2016 US presidential election, along with Brexit itself, and recent polls in Germany and France. Each evening at 1830 UTC, DW's editors send out a selection of the day's hard news and quality feature journalism. You can sign up to receive it directly here. 