It is already clear that many species have been lost in the recent past. And the causes are also clear: intense agriculture, pollution, overfishing, poaching, the destruction of natural habitats and climate change. It is unclear, however, how dire the global biodiversity situation really is and whether conservation measures have achieved anything. Most recently, in 2005, theMillennium Ecosystem Assessment  showed how massively ecosystems were polluted over the previous 50 years and how necessary a reversal is. Haggling over the final wording Starting this Monday, government representatives and scientists will discuss a new report on biodiversity for a week. The report is based on the research results that 150 experts from 50 countries have compiled and analyzed over the past three years. The experts analyzed almost 15,000 sources for their report, and 250 other experts provided knowledge directly. For the first time, the findings and interests of indigenous peoples and other local knowledge were included. The World Biodiversity Council IPBES plans to publish this summary on May 6. This World Biodiversity Council is often compared with the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC), which provides information on the status and possible consequences of climate change. Basis for political decisions This week is crucial, as the key messages of the report are now being fine-tuned. The details are still confidential. The final report will then serve as a basis for action for politicians, for example. Accordingly, the participating researchers hope not only to give species protection a new boost, but also to initiate a change toward sustainable development. The IPBES report is also intended as a basis for the next Conference of the Parties to the Convention on Biological Diversity (CBD) in Kunming, China, in 2020. From the researchers' point of view, we are far from an all-clear. Josef Settele of the Helmholtz Centre for Environmental Research (UFZ) in Halle, one of the three main authors of the IPBES report, says that current research shows that the decline in species diversity has not yet been stopped. This bizarre-looking 2-meter-wide fish baffled locals when it washed up on a beach in California in February. It turned out to be the rare hoodwinker sunfish, which wasn't officially identified until 2017 and had only been spotted in the southern hemisphere waters off near New Zealand and Australia. In fact, it's the first time this creature has been seen in the northern hemisphere in 130 years. Yes, you read that right. A deep-sea swimming sea cucumber dubbed the "headless chicken sea monster" (real name Enypniastes eximia) was filmed swimming off East Antarctica in 2018. It had previously only been filmed in the Gulf of Mexico. Although most sea cucumbers spend their time on the ocean floor, specimens like this one spend their days floating through the ocean, only landing to feed. This isn't your typical honey bee. Thirty eight years after its last sighting, this 3.8 cm (1.5 inch) behemoth (at least by bee standards) was found by scientists in the Indonesian jungle. It was even on the Global Wildlife Conservation's list of the top 25 "most wanted" species. Despite its fearsome-looking jaws, much like its smaller cousins, the bee actually prefers nectar and pollen. This creature of the deep likely inspired the myth of the "kraken." But it eluded scientists for decades — the first confirmed photograph of a live giant squid was taken in 2004. The above image is a still from the very first footage of the species in its natural habitat, taken in 2013. It's still not known just how big they can really grow, but the largest recorded specimen measured 13 meters, In 2015, scientists officially confirmed the discovery of a new species of mammal on the Indonesian island of Sulawesi. It earned its name thanks to its piglet-like nose, the purpose of which remains a mystery. It also boasts an intimidating set of vampire-like teeth, although its diet mainly revolves around earthworms and beetle larvae. This tiny moth was found in Southern California in 2017. But it only gained media attention thanks to it's orange-tinted mop of 'hair', which bears a striking resemblance to US President Donald Trump's hairstyle. So it was given a name to match. Ironically, the moth's habitat extends through to the state of Baja California in Mexico — which could be divided by Trump's proposed border wall. There's apparently no better place to discover weird-looking creatures than the depths of the ocean. This rarely photographed sea toad was discovered during a 2009 'Deep Down Under' expedition in Australia's Coral Sea. The bottom-dwelling fish is part of the deep-sea anglerfish family, which are probably best known for dangling a bioluminescent lure in front of their mouth to catch their prey. It might not be an animal, but the discovery of this unique plant in Japan 2017 sparked interest around the world. It's one of the very few species of plant which have essentially abandoned the process of photosynthesis, instead feeding off the roots of host fungi, such as mushrooms or even mould. Flora in Japan is very well documented, making this unexpected discovery particularly special. A new species of beetle was found in a cave in Guangxi Province, China in 2018. Its long, compact body, spindly legs and total lack of eyes or wings make it a prime example of a species which has evolved to live its life in complete darkness — also known as convergent evolution. While the microscopic tartigrade has been known to science since 1777, a new species was found in 2018 — in a parking lot in Japan of all places. A researcher plucked a piece of moss from the concrete and took it to the lab for testing. These 'water bears' are known for being practically indestructible and the new species could be descended from an ancient line. Author: Ineke Mules