US lawmaker and House Speaker Nancy Pelosi on Sunday said she had taken steps to ensure the safety of fellow Democratic lawmaker Ilhan Omar , accusing US President Donald Trump of "inflammatory" rhetoric against her. Earlier this week, Trump published a video on his Twitter account showing a snippet from a speech by Omar in which she says "some people did something" while talking about Islamophobia in the wake of the September 11, 2001 attacks. The snippet was interspersed with images of when two planes flew into the Twin Towers in New York in the deadliest attack on US soil. In the tweet, Trump wrote: "WE WILL NEVER FORGET!" Trump's "dangerous video must be taken down," Pelosi said. "I have spoken with the Sergeant-at-Arms to ensure that Capitol Police are conducting a security assessment to safeguard Rep. Ilhan Omar, her family and her staff. They will continue to monitor and address the threats she faces." Read more: Will Germany address Islamophobia and anti-Muslim attacks? 'Second-class citizen' The remark used in Trump's video was part of a 20-minute speech Omar delivered on March 23 to the Council on American-Islamic Relations (CAIR). But Trump failed to contextualize her speech on Islamophobia post-9/11. "For far too long, we have lived with the discomfort of being a second-class citizen and, frankly, I'm tired of it, and every single Muslim in this country should be tired of it," Omar said in the speech. "CAIR was founded after 9/11 because they recognized the some people did something and that all of us were starting to lose access to our civil liberties." The White House, however, defended him, with press secretary Sarah Sanders saying that Trump "is wishing no ill will and certainly not violence towards anyone." Shortly after Pelosi called on Trump to take down the video, it was removed from his Twitter feed. CAIR was established in 1994, according to its website, but membership grew significantly after 2001. Read more: Trump looks at releasing migrants to Democrat 'sanctuary cities' Every evening, DW's editors send out a selection of the day's hard news and quality feature journalism. You can sign up to receive it directly here. Surrounded by the ones he loves, Donald Trump with his wife, Melania, daughters Ivanka and Tiffany, his sons Eric and Donald, Jr., and grandchildren Kai and Donald John III. His three eldest children are senior vice presidents in the Trump organization. This picture from 1984 shows Trump opening Harrah's at Trump Plaza, a casino in Atlantic City, New Jersey. It's one of the investments that helped turn Trump, already a millionaire thanks to cash from his father, into a billionaire. Trump inherited the money he used to launch his real estate empire from his father, Frederick. He gave his son a million dollars to start and then, upon his death, left Donald and his three siblings $400 million. Donald Trump aggressively invested the money and experienced the market's highs and lows. Long-term success came thanks to Trump Tower in New York City. Trump has said he's worth some $10 billion, but he has not released financial information to prove the claim. Experts estimate he's worth about a third of that. That's what Trump had to say about himself. He studied at the renowned Wharton School of the University of Pennsylvania and graduated with a bachelor's degree. Before college, Trump was sent to a military academy at the age of 13 to learn discipline. By the time he graduated, he had earned an officer's rank at the academy. During his campaign for president, he said he enjoyed the school's structure and military culture. Despite the military education, Trump did not serve in the Vietnam War. He received four deferments while studying and a fifth for bone spurs in his heels. Trump will be the first US president to enter the White House without having previously served in a public office or the military. In 1977, Trump married Ivana Zelnuickova of what was then Czechoslovakia. The pair had three children together, Donald John, Jr., Ivanka Marie and Eric Fredrick. The marriage, however, was plagued with rumors of extra-marital affairs and ended in 1990. Ivana was the one who created Trump's nickname "The Donald." Trump later married his second wife, Marla Maples. Maples gave birth to their daughter Tiffany in 1993. Trump seemed to enjoy being photographed with women other than his wife by his side. He often visited beauty pageants and posed with young models. From 1996 to 2015, he owned part of all the Miss Universe pageants. Trump would later come under fire for an audio recording of him saying his fame allowed him to grope women without fearing consequences. How do you make a quick million? Trump's best-seller "The Art of the Deal," which was part autobiography, part instruction manual for ambitious businessmen, tried to show readers the way. Already well-known, the book solidified Trump's spot in the public spotlight. Like no other, Trump knew how to grab the public's attention, as seen here in a show for "World Wrestling Entertainment." His unique blend of business and entertainment acumen met in the reality TV show "The Apprentice" where candidates were hired and fired. Trump's favorite line from the show: "You're fired!" Though he had previously had very little contact with governing or politics, Trump announced his presidential candidacy on July 16, 2015. He used "Make America Great Again" as a political slogan and during his election campaign insulted immigrants, Muslims, women and everyone running against him. Whether the showman morphs into a statesman will be seen over Trump's four years in the White House. Views are split as he prepares to take office. But if his life so far is anything to go by, there is no telling what will be next. Author: Peter Hille (sms) ls/se (AP, AFP)