French Finance Minister Bruno Le Maire on Thursday criticized an "excessive" exit deal for outgoing Airbus CEO Tom Enders. Enders led the European aerospace giant to new heights by overseeing sharp rises in share prices since becoming chief executive in 2012. However, the company has also faced allegations of improper use of middlemen during Enders' tenure, with investigations pending in some instances, while internal compliance probes led to a string of prominent executives leaving the company with no specific allegations against them ever made public. Under an exit deal, he is expected to receive a retirement package and future potential share earnings worth €36.8 million ($41.3 million). "We're talking about excessive amounts here," Le Maire told French broadcaster BFM. Read more: Uncertain times take Airbus back to the drawing board French Finance Minister Bruno Le Maire described plans to cap exit payouts — what he described as "golden handshakes" Plans to limit caps Le Maire told the French TV channel that the French government was planning to implement a cap on exit deals for executives. "I will limit the amount of bosses' golden handshakes to 30 percent of their salary," Le Maire said. The French government has been rocked by mass protests over the cost of living and may therefore be looking to improve its image by cracking down on lavish bonuses for business executives. "The figure announced regarding Tom Enders is obviously excessive and could harm the reputation of Airbus," Le Maire told French newspaper Les Echos earlier this week. "I call on the directors of Airbus to draw the [necessary] conclusions." Although the previous Socialist government of Francois Hollande issued a non-binding code of conduct for companies, Le Maire said legislation was needed "because clearly good practices are not enough." France and Germany each hold an 11-percent stake in Airbus. Reducing government influence on the aerospace giant is another achievement often credited to Enders, who is now 60. Read more: German taxpayers may lose out over Airbus A380 loan Every evening, DW's editors send out a selection of the day's hard news and quality feature journalism. You can sign up to receive it directly here. When the A380 was introduced, it put almost every other competitor on the airfield in the shadows — literally. With a length of 72.7 meters (238 feet) the plane has a wingspan of 79.8 meters and is over 24 meters tall. Singapore Airlines was the first airline to deploy the A380. Here the proud new owners are shown on the tarmac in Toulouse — gathered together to document the great day. Back then on October 15, 2007, the future of passenger flying was still seen in terms of size: The more passengers transported at once, the more profit for the airline. The superjumbo can carry more than 500 passengers in a three-class configuration, which is an increase of more than 100 passengers over its rival, Boeing's 747. Airbus' new aircraft boasts two passenger decks and first-class suites with proper beds. In an all-economy configuration, the plane could carry more than 850 passengers. The A380 was hailed for its roominess, large windows, high ceilings and quieter engines. Some carriers put in showers, lounges, duty free shops and bars on both decks, and passengers could choose to fly in their own private suite. In 2011 and 2012 a number of technical problems with the A380 were reported. Qantas, Emirates and Singapore Airlines all reported A380 flights that had to make emergency landings due to engine issues. In January 2012, Qantas and Singapore Airlines found cracks in the wings of their A380s. Investigations found they were caused by material and manufacturing problems and it cost €263 million to fix. Sadly, the A380's major selling point turned out to be its biggest downfall, with airlines saying they were unable to make the flight profitable if they did not sell every seat on the plane. "It's an aircraft that frightens airline CFOs; the risk of failing to sell so many seats is just too high," one aerospace industry source said. In January and February 2019, both loyal customer Emirates and Australian airline Qantas cancelled orders for the A380. Emirates instead decided to order some smaller planes from Airbus while Qantas withdrew its order for the purchase of eight A380s. After struggling to sell the giant planes, European plane manufacturer Airbus announced it would stop making its superjumbo A380 in 2021 due to lack of customers, bringing the life of the world's biggest passenger jet and one of the aviation industry's most ambitious and most troubled endeavors to an end. Author: Louisa Wright ls/msh (Reuters, AFP)