Late Serbian President Slobodan Milosevic's wife Mirjana Markovic has died at a hospital in Russia, the Serbian news agency Beta reported on Sunday, citing several local media outlets. A friend also told the Agence France-Presse news agency the 77-year-old had passed away. "I can confirm that, unfortunately, Mira Markovic passed away," Milutin Mrkonjic, once a close associate of Milosevic and a family friend, said. However, the Serbian Embassy in Moscow said it had no official confirmation of Markovic's death, Beta reported. Read more: New trial for accused Serbian war criminals Send  Facebook   Twitter   google+   Whatsapp   Tumblr   linkedin   stumble   Digg   reddit   Newsvine Permalink https://p.dw.com/p/3Gkaa Markovic, who fled Serbia in 2003 after being sentenced to a year in prison for abuse of office, was reported to have been in ill health in recent years. She, along with her son Marko Milosevic, was given political asylum in Russia in 2006 after fleeing her native country. Milosevic's sweetheart She and ultranationalist Milosevic, who ruled Serbia with an iron fist, were high school sweethearts, and she is credited with having a huge influence on the late strongman. Markovic headed the left-wing JUL party, which in 1997 became his government's coalition partner. After fueling a brutal ethnic conflict and mass murder across the Balkans following the breakup of the former Yugoslavia, Milosevic was ousted as president by a popular uprising in 2000. He was later arrested and transferred to the United Nations war crimes court for the former Yugoslavia in The Hague, where he stood trial on charges of genocide, war crimes and crimes against humanity. In 2006, four years into his trial, Milosevic died in his prison cell in The Hague from a heart attack. Often dubbed the "Lady Macbeth of the Balkans," Markovic made considerable efforts over the years to clear her husband's name. Read more: Serbia convicts ex-intel officers behind journalist assassination The strongman's other side The former sociology professor released a lengthy autobiography defending the ex-Serbian president in 2015 and revealing how they fell in love. The two-volume memoir described her husband as "the leading political figure" of the last decade of the 20th century. At more than 900 pages, the book describes the couple's rise and fall, from when they met until Milosevic's death, as well as her childhood and her time in exile in Russia. Markovic's own death comes a month after an appeal court in Serbia voided her one-year jail sentence and ordered a retrial. She had also been named as a suspect in the mysterious assassination of former Serbian President Ivan Stambolic in August 2000. The Kosovo conflict intensified at the end of the 1990s. Ten thousand people were displaced. When all efforts to bring peace to the region failed, NATO started air strikes on Serbian military bases and strategic targets in Serbia on March 24, 1999. After 11 weeks, Serb leader Slobodan Milosevic finally backed down. Protests against Belgrade's attempts to undermine the rights of the Albanian majority in Kosovo began in the mid-1980s. The 1990s saw a massive increase in Serbian repression. Ibrahim Rugova (l.), who took the reins of Kosovo's political movement in 1989, called for non-violent resistance and sought to convince Slobodan Milosevic (r.) to change course — to no avail. An armed resistance formed in Kosovo, in which the self-proclaimed Kosovo Liberation Army (UCK) began a brutal guerrilla war. The UCK undertook violent attacks on Serbia as well as against Albanians it considered to be collaborators. Serbia retaliated by torching houses and looting businesses. Hundreds of thousands of people fled. The war grew increasingly brutal and Serbian forces stepped up attacks on civilians in an attempt to destroy the UCK and its supporters. Scores of people fled into the forests. Thousands of Kosovo Albanians were loaded onto trains and trucks to be transported to the border, where they were thrown out without passports or other personal documents that could prove they were from Kosovo. In February 1999, the USA, France, the United Kingdom, Russia and Germany convened a meeting of warring parties in Rambouillet, France, in an attempt to establish autonomy for Kosovo. Kosovan representatives accepted the proposal, yet Serbia was unwilling to compromise. The negotiations collapsed. On March 24, 1999, NATO began bombing military and strategic targets in Serbia and Kosovo in an attempt to end violence against the Albanians. Germany also participated in the bombing. "Operation Allied Force" became the first war in NATO's 50-year history — one conducted without the backing of the UN Security Council. Russia harshly criticized the intervention. Beyond military targets, NATO also bombed supply lines, train tracks and bridges. Over the course of 79 days and nights, allied forces flew more than 37,000 sorties. Some 20,000 missiles and bombs rained down on Serbia. Many civilians were killed: "collateral damage," in the words of NATO. Industrial sites were also targeted. In Pancevo, near Belgrade, NATO bombs hit a chemical and fertilizer factory. Massive amounts of toxic substances were released into rivers, the ground and the skies — resulting in grave health risks for the nearby civilian population. Moreover, Serbia accused NATO of deploying uranium-enriched munitions as well as cluster and fragment bombs. State television offices in Belgrade were attacked in an attempt to deprive Slobodan Milosevic of his most important propaganda tool. Although the Serbian government was warned of an impending attack in time, Belgrade withheld that information. Sixteen people were killed when the site was bombed. NATO bombs in Kosovo inadvertently hit a group of Albanian refugees, killing an estimated 80 people. NATO also claimed that the accidental bombardment of the Chinese Embassy in Belgrade was another case of "collateral damage." Four people were killed in the misguided attack, leading to a diplomatic crisis between Beijing and Washington. In early June, Belgrade signaled that Slobodan Milosevic might be prepared to surrender, prompting NATO to end its campaign on June 19. The final toll of the war: thousands of dead and 860,000 refugees. Serbia's economy and large swaths of its infrastructure were destroyed. Kosovo was put under UN administration. Author: Sonila Sand Each evening at 1830 UTC, DW's editors send out a selection of the day's hard news and quality feature journalism. You can sign up to receive it directly here.