Demonstrators in Sudan are continuing their weeks of anti-regime protests, demanding that military leaders hand over power to civilians after long-time autocratic President Omar al-Bashir was overthrown in a coup on Thursday. Thousands of protesters rallied outside army headquarters in the capital, Khartoum, overnight to Friday despite a curfew imposed by the military council. Send  Facebook   Twitter   google+   Whatsapp   Tumblr   linkedin   stumble   Digg   reddit   Newsvine Permalink https://p.dw.com/p/3GclY 'Recycling' of the regime The Sudan Professionals Association (SPA), which has been a main force behind 16 weeks of anti-Bashir protests, has called on protesters to continue their demonstrations after the army announced that there would be two years of military rule before presidential elections. SPA spokeswoman Sara Abdelgalil told DW that her organization rejected the idea of military rule, calling it a "recycling of the same regime members." She also warned that Defense Minister Awad Mohammed Ibn Ouf, who announced the imposition of a military-led transition, was someone with a history of participation "in excessive violence and killing of civilians." "Things are actually escalating further," she said. 'Ibn Ouf is a war criminal; Ibn Ouf doesn't represent me' reads this banner held by a protester Economic crisis The SPA's call for civilian rule has been backed by other voices in the international community, with US chief Antonio Guterres calling for a transition in accordance with the "democratic aspirations" of the Sudanese people and the European Union urging the army to implement a "swift" handover. Bashir, 75,  was said by Ibn Ouf to have been detained in "a secure place." The former president, who ruled Sudan for 30 years and also came to power through a military coup, has been indicted by the International Criminal Court in The Hague over allegations of genocide in Sudan's Darfur region. Protests against him were ostensibly triggered by the government's attempt to raise the price of bread amid an economic crisis accompanied by shortages of fuel and cash. Send  Facebook   Twitter   google+   Whatsapp   Tumblr   linkedin   stumble   Digg   reddit   Newsvine Permalink https://p.dw.com/p/3GdwZ tj/ng (AFP, Reuters, AP, dpa) Each evening at 1830 UTC, DW's editors send out a selection of the day's hard news and quality feature journalism. You can sign up to receive it directly here.