The armed republican group known as the New IRA on Tuesday admitted to the killing of journalist Lyra McKee in the city of Londonderry/Derry last week. The group made the admission in astatement to The Irish News newspaper. McKee was shot dead during a riot as dissident republicans clashed with police last Thursday in the city's Creggan district. "In the course of attacking the enemy, Lyra McKee was tragically killed while standing beside enemy forces," the statement said. "The IRA offer our full and sincere apologies to the partner, family and friends of Lyra McKee for her death," it added. The New IRA, which formed in 2012, accused police of provoking rioting that preceded the gun attack in which McKee died. The group rejects the Good Friday agreement of 1998, which brought to an end three decades of a sectarian conflict in Northern Ireland that claimed more than 3,600 lives. The admission and apology came after far-left republican political group Saoradh, which is associated with the New IRA, called for the organization to apologize. Saoradh canceled a dissident republican Easter march on Monday "as a mark of respect." 'Blood on their hands' However, Saoradh has come under heavy criticism for its perceived role in stoking sectarian hatred. Friends of the journalist held a protest at Saoradh headquarters on Monday, using a pot of red paint to place handprints on the walls of the building. "We have used red paint because they have blood on their hands for what has happened," said protester Sinead Quinn, a friend of McKee. "They have encouraged it, they have molded these young people into what they are and they are standing behind them handing them guns. They need to take responsibility today for what has happened. "They have shirked it so far by saying it was an accidental shooting. You don't shoot accidentally." Police have released without charge two men, aged 18 and 19, who were arrested after the killing. The Police Service of Northern Ireland appealed to the community for help to find the killer. "I know there will be some people who know what happened but are scared to come forward, but if you have information, no matter how small, please contact detectives," said Detective Superintendent Jason Murphy, stressing that the information would be treated as "100 percent anonymous." Read more: The Irish border — what you need to know McKee's killing followed a rise in incidents being viewed by police as terror related, with police warning that "a new breed of terrorist" is emerging from the ranks of paramilitary organizations. This year alone, the New IRA has claimed responsibility for a car bomb in Derry in January and a spate of letter bombs that were sent to British targets in March. Send  Facebook   Twitter   google+   Whatsapp   Tumblr   linkedin   stumble   Digg   reddit   Newsvine Permalink https://p.dw.com/p/3H4Fs The unrest came ahead of the Easter weekend when republicans, who want Northern Ireland to become part of a united Republic of Ireland, traditionally mark the anniversary of the 1916 Easter Rising against British rule. Commentators have speculated that Brexit, which has raised the prospect of a hard border between the Republic and Northern Ireland, could be exploited by paramilitaries to revivify their cause. rc/aw (dpa)