The German Bundeswehr on Thursday rolled out a new recruitment campaign targeting Ford employees as the US automaker prepares to shed thousands of jobs at its German factories. The ad said "Job Fort?" — or "Job gone?" — with part of the phrase using Ford's trademark script, adding "Do something that really matters." The campaign was criticized by Ford and the automaker's workers' council. "This advertisement was not coordinated with Ford at all," Reiner Ludwig, managing director for human resources at Ford-Werke Ltd, told DW. "The Bundeswehr tries to enforce its interests without considering the difficult current situation of our company and the sensitive sentiment in our workforce." Ludwig noted that Ford had "attempted to avoid this campaign... but the Federal Ministry of Defense did not show any willingness to talk about this issue." Martin Hennig, who heads Ford Europe's workers' council, called the campaign "inappropriate and disrespectful." Read more: German armed forces recruit fewer minors 'Career perspective' But a spokeswoman for the Defense Ministry told the dpa news agency that Ford shouldn't take offense. "The Bundeswehr wants to offer people affected by job cuts a career perspective in uniform or in our civilian sector," the spokeswoman said. Read more: Bundeswehr floats idea of recruiting EU citizens Bundeswehr recruitment practices in other areas, not least German schools, have also faced criticism of late. Ford has announcement massive job cuts at its German factories Jobs on the line Last month, Ford Europe announced it would cut more than 5,000 jobs in Germany as part of its restructuring plan aimed at boosting profits. The cuts are expected to occur through voluntary redundancies and early retirement schemes, with Ford aiming to do them "in the most socially responsible way possible." Ford Europe employs more than 50,000 people across Europe, with nearly half of them in Germany. Read more: Germany: 1 in 3 unemployed can't afford a proper meal Every evening, DW's editors send out a selection of the day's hard news and quality feature journalism. You can sign up to receive it directly here. Germans are as attached to their forms of transport as the English are to their monarchy. No wonder: Gottlieb Daimler invented the modern car; Nicolaus August Otto co-invented the internal combustion engine. Every child knows the brands Daimler, BMW, Audi and VW, and that motorways were first built in Germany. But transport systems will become greener and more flexible, traffic researchers say. Since 2008, more people live in cities than in rural areas, and that trend is increasing. Urban zones will become CO2-neutral, climate-adapted, digitized and automated, Fraunhofer Morgenstadt Initiative researchers say. Networking will encourage more efficient means of transport, the sharing economy will catch on, mobility will become a service. No more need for your own car. With worldwide networking possible via the internet, cities and traffic systems can be coordinated. This could mean automatically switching traffic lights according to the flow of vehicles. Sensors could transmit data and prevent vehicles from hitting each other, thus avoiding accidents. Servicing, maintenance, insurance and parking meters may become unnecessary. Will Amazon, Google and others become the new carmakers and put the drivers in the back seat? Interesting question — although self-driving cars have recently been dealt a setback. Testing at US company Uber was suspended after a self-driving car ran over a woman by night. Today the streets are clogged, lights are red, you're stuck in a traffic jam, going to miss that appointment. Car horns, anger, insults: that's stressful. But rage and provocation could become things of the past if self-driving cars become the norm. Then, passengers can sit back and laugh about the old days. Order your ride or taxi by app. Public and collective transport is increasingly being organized via the internet. You can even pay for the service through your smartphone. The car's future is electric, that seems to be the consensus; the only question is, when? Despite investing billions into e-cars, there's a lack of options and sites for charging electric vehicles. Together with high costs, consumers are concerned. Alternatives to e-cars could fill the gap: fuel-electric hybrids, and other vehicles powered by hydrogen or synthetic fuels. Postal workers are climate-friendly when they deliver letters by foot or bike, but for parcels they need vehicles. Deutsche Post (DHL) and Aachen Technical University have invented the CO2-free StreetScooters, powered by renewable energy. One of the challenges of the future is to make sure the electricity used in electric vehicles is also climate-friendly. It looks a little like a Smart car, but it's actually an e-bike on four wheels. The Podride is 1.8 meters (6 feet) long and has a closed cab with a comfy seat. It travels file on snow and ice, it's heated, it can manage steep and uneven slopes, and there is even storage space. The driver steers by way of two levers at the seat and pedals to power the rear wheels with help from the electric motor. From many clever minds comes a clever idea. A dozen companies are developing personal aircraft. This rocket-like Vahana flying car prototype from Airbus is designed to beam a passenger along at 9,150 meters (30,000 feet) altitude, reaching speeds of 480 kilometers (298 miles) per hour. Battery swaps would be like Formula 1 pit stops: quick landings, and on you go. The Bauhaus Luftfahrt association is developing an airport and aircraft concept. The Ce liner would be power by two electric engines with aerodynamically efficient C-shape wings. Inner-city airports of the future would be arranged over several levels to save on space, with lift-off from the top level and battery charging on lower floors. The Swiss mountain village of Stoos boasts the steepest cable railway in the world. It rises up 744 meters in altitude as it travels 1.7 kilometers in just four minutes. The village has 150 permanent residents, but 2,000 hotel beds for visitors to come and enjoy the view in the car-free resort. Maybe someday the Himalayas will have a similar system? Can you imagine the world without your own car? Until now, the car has represented prosperity and independence. But experts see mobility as becoming smart in the near future, with cars being used by multiple users and forming just one part of a range of mobility offerings. Author: Karin Jäger