White House officials and congressional staffers were set to meet Saturday to work on a deal to end the US government shutdown, after a Friday meeting between US president Donald Trump and congressional leaders of both parties yielded no compromises. Following the meeting, Trump doubled down on his border wall demand and said he had designated Vice President Mike Pence, Homeland Security Secretary Kirstjen Nielsen and adviser Jared Kushner to lead the weekend negotiations. Trump said his Friday talks with Democrats had been "productive," but Democrats described them to the press as "somewhat contentious. The president told Democrats that he could keep the government partially shuttered for "months or even years" over the wall funding. Read more: Opinion: Donald Trump uses old tricks in shutdown talks with new Congress "I hope it doesn't go on even beyond a few more days," Trump said, but added: "We won't be opening until it's solved." "I don't call it a shutdown. I call it doing what you have to do for the benefit and the safety of our country," he added. Trump threatens 'national emergency' Trump told reporters that, while official ports of entry were strong, many miles of unprotected areas existed along the border where drug and human traffickers could enter the US. The "crisis" at the border with Mexico could only be solved with the construction of a solid concrete or steel structure to close off these open areas, the president added. Trump emphasized this message with a video on his twitter account, showing images of migrants throwing rocks at the border and tear gas flying, with the words "crime, drugs, lawlessness." Ultimately, the president said he could officially declare a national emergency to build a border wall, if he did not win the fight with democrats, though he said he wanted to try to negotiate with Congress first. "I can do it if I want. We can call a national emergency. I may do it," Trump told reporters on Friday. Read more: Donald Trump will be impeached in 2019, says 'prediction professor' On the subject of federal employees working without pay, the president said those workers would want him to "keep going" on his fight for the wall. Regarding their financial safety net, the president concluded that "the safety net is going to be having a strong border because we're going to be safe." Pelosi pressures the Senate For their part, the new Democratic House of Representatives passed legislation Thursday night to reopen the government, without Trump's proposed wall funding. But Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell said he would not consider the bill. "Any viable compromise will need to carry the endorsement of the president before it receives a vote," McConnell said. In a television appearance Friday night, House Speaker Nancy Pelosi blamed Senate Republicans for enabling the president. "There’s little excuse for one chamber of Congress refusing to do its job and simply giving power over to the President," Pelosi tweeted. Democratic Senate leader Chuck Schumer echoed Pelosi's call, warning that if McConnell and Senate Republicans do not act, "Trump can keep the government shut down for a long time." "The president needs an intervention," Schumer said. "And Senate Republicans are just the right ones to intervene," he concluded. jcg/rc (AFP, AP) Send  Facebook   Twitter   google+   Whatsapp   Tumblr   linkedin   stumble   Digg   reddit   Newsvine Permalink https://p.dw.com/p/3B3f3 Each evening at 1830 UTC, DW's editors send out a selection of the day's hard news and quality feature journalism. You can sign up to receive it directly here.