French President Emmanuel Macron has said Egypt's human rights record appears to have worsened under general-turned-President Abdel-Fattah el-Sissi.  Macron said he felt the current crackdown on opposition in Egypt, which began after el-Sissi overthrew his elected but divisive Islamist predecessor Mohammed Morsi in 2013, had become worse than under the country's longtime autocrat Hosni Mubarak, who was overthrown in the 2011 Arab Spring uprising. Read more: El-Sissi: Egypt's new strongman "I think current policies are perceived by intellectuals and Egypt's civil society as tougher than under the Mubarak regime," Macron said on Sunday during a three-day visit to the Arab world's most populated country. Mubarak, a former air force commander, was jailed for conspiring to kill demonstrators who ended his three-decade rule, but was freed on appeal in 2017. "I can't see how you can pretend to ensure long-term stability in this country, which was at the heart of the Arab Spring and showed its taste for freedom, and think you can continue to harden beyond what's acceptable or justified for security reasons," Macron added. The French president said he would "have a confidential dialogue" with el-Sissi on "individual cases" of imprisoned opponents. Send  Facebook   Twitter   google+   Whatsapp   Tumblr   linkedin   stumble   Digg   reddit   Newsvine Permalink https://p.dw.com/p/2uyCC Crackdown affects people 'with no threat to the regime' Macron said the crackdown had extended from political opponents to include members of civil society. "Today, it is not simply political opponents who are imprisoned but also opponents who are in the traditional democratic camp, who do not threaten the stability of the regime," he said. "These are journalists, homosexuals, women and men who have convictions but who seem to pose absolutely no threat to the regime." Read more: Is Egypt heading toward another uprising? Despite his concerns, when asked if human rights issues could affect arms sales to Egypt — such as one deal under discussion for additional Rafale advanced fighter jets — Macron said the matters were separate. "I would differentiate between the two subjects, they are not linked for us and they never were," Macron said. Macron's delegation includes government ministers, two dozen representatives from academic, cultural, and scientific fields and a dozen business leaders, including the heads of Rafale producer Dassault. Macron is due to meet with el-Sissi on Monday morning, and will later meet with local business leaders and the heads of Egypt's Christian and Muslim communities in his first trip to Egypt since taking office in 2017. The book opens with Nawal El Saadawi, an Egyptian physician, author and well-known women’s rights advocate. She explains why Middle Eastern women have so far failed to make a breakthrough in their fight: "Women can’t be liberated under the patriarchal, imperialistic and militaristic system that determines our lives now. We are governed by power, not justice; by false democracy, not real freedom." Syrian psychoanalyst Rafah Nached was arrested in Damascus in September 2011 after organizing meetings to help traumatized anti-Assad protesters. She was freed two months later and now lives in exile in Paris. "In the Arab society, change is refused because whoever does not join the mass is considered an atheist or abnormal," she says in Huitfeldt’s book. Shirin Ebadi is an Iranian lawyer who has dedicated her life to fighting for women's, children's, and refugee rights. A target of threats by the government and the police in her country, she was awarded the Nobel Peace Prize in 2003. "Democracy does not recognize east and west; democracy is people’s will. Therefore, I do not acknowledge the idea of various models of democracy," she says. "Of course, occupation is male, especially military occupation. The conflict between Israel and Palestine is a man-made conflict, and we, as women, have to end it," says Palestinian legislator, activist, and scholar Hanan Ashrawi in the book. Despite making some controversial comments about Jewish refugees, Ashrawi has contributed significantly to the peace process between the two countries. Feminist Amal Basha is from Yemen, which placed last in the UN Gender Equality Index in 2016. Women’s economic, social, and cultural rights are restricted by Sharia law there - but why? "Men are afraid of women because women are the voice of peace. They have no interest in wars since they are not arm dealers willing to milk the country through all sorts of military deals," she says. To end the ongoing civil war in her homeland, both genders will have to change their attitudes, says Libyan Hajer Sharief, a member of the UN advisory committee and Kofi Annan foundation: "If you look into the houses, you will see mothers pushing their young sons to go to the war. Even if they don’t carry weapons themselves, they are definitely contributing to the circle of violence in Libya." Jordanian Rana Husseini is a feminist, human rights defender, and an investigative journalist, whose reporting sheds light on violence against women. "The Jordanian society blames women for everything: for being raped, harassed, giving birth to children of the wrong sex, and even for their husbands’ unfaithful and womanizing behavior. The list is endless," she says on the topic of honor killings. Author: Jan Tomes law/cmk (AFP, AP, Reuters) Every day, DW's editors send out a selection of the day's hard news and quality feature journalism. Sign up for the newsletter here.