British Prime Minister Theresa May is to pursue a bilateral treaty with the Irish government in an attempt to push her Brexit deal through Parliament, a newspaper reported on Sunday. The Sunday Times said aides to May believe a deal with Dublin would remove the huge opposition to the country's withdrawal agreement setting out its divorce from the European Union. The UK leader lost a parliamentary vote on the deal last week, having failed to win the support of pro-Brexit rebel lawmakers in her Conservative Party, and Northern Ireland's Democratic Unionist Party, which props up her minority government. Read more: Brexit: German leaders write emotional letter to Britain Send  Facebook   Twitter   google+   Whatsapp   Tumblr   linkedin   stumble   Digg   reddit   Newsvine Permalink https://p.dw.com/p/3BpJf Many MPs oppose the backstop that the European Union insists on as a guarantee to avoid a hard border between the Irish Republic, which remains an EU member, and Northern Ireland, which will leave with the rest of the UK on March 29. Last Tuesday's defeat left Britain facing the prospect of no deal to smooth its exit from the EU in little more than two months' time. New options due On Monday, May is due to announce in Parliament how she plans to proceed, after holding discussions with other political parties in the wake of the landslide vote. The newspaper later updated its own story saying the Irish government was not supportive of the treaty plan. It cited senior Irish government sources who said May's proposal was "not something we would entertain." Read more:  India, the EU and the hard realities of a post-Brexit world May's office, meanwhile, described as "extremely concerning" reports that senior Conservative politicians were plotting for Parliament to seize control of Brexit. Amendments planned British media reported that one group of MPs plans to table a motion this week that would suspend the country's withdrawal process under the EU's Article 50 of the Lisbon Treaty. Other politicians are said to be planning an amendment making it impossible for Britain to leave the EU without a deal. "The British public voted to leave the European Union, and it is vital that elected politicians deliver upon that verdict," a Downing Street spokeswoman said. "Any attempt to remove the government's power to meet the legal conditions of an orderly exit at this moment of historic significance is extremely concerning." International Trade Secretary Liam Fox warned of a "political tsunami" if MPs fail to deliver on the 2016 referendum vote to leave the EU. Writing in The Sunday Telegraph, he slammed those calling for May to rule out a no-deal Brexit — a key demand of the main opposition Labour Party — saying the "most stupid thing possible" in a negotiation is to "give away your strongest card." Queen Elizabeth II is Britain's longest reigning monarch. She has been Queen since 1952 and has come to symbolize continuity and stability, tradition and self-discipline. Walking two steps behind her is usually the love of her life, her husband Prince Philip. This year she turned 93, and he is 98. The Rolling Stones: Mick Jagger, Charlie Watts, Keith Richards and Ron Wood pose at Havana Airport in Cuba. The veteran British band performed there for the first time on March 24, 2016 — writing music history. Tower Bridge in the center of London has been one of the city's most famous landmarks since 1894. London is among Europe's most popular travel destinations, drawing more than 30 million tourists each year. The adventures of the young wizard invented by J. K. Rowling have found fans all over the world. This picture shows Harry Potter, played by Daniel Radcliffe, in his second year of training at the Hogwarts School of Witchcraft and Wizardry. Naomi Campbell has been a key face in the international fashion business for almost three decades. Born in London, she was the first black model to be shown on the cover of French edition of Vogue magazine. She was one of the six models of the 1990s to be declared supermodels. Few people can make us laugh like Rowan Atkinson, alias Mr. Bean, does. The Mr. Bean comedy series was produced from 1989 to 1995 and has a cult following. Kew Gardens in southwestern London are one of the world's oldest botanic gardens. The British are famous for their gardening skills and are regarded as experts in cultivating immaculate lawns. Arguably, no other country in Europe has such lovely gardens. The focus is not on speed, but on elegance and class. The famous British understatement is also evident in Britain's luxury cars, like the Rolls-Royce. The company was bought by Germans, but it remains a British classic. There are certainly other European countries that are more famous for their cuisine. But if the British don't leave us, we'll never complain about their warm beer or lamb with mint sauce again. We promise! The British taught us how enjoyable sightseeing can be. London's double-decker buses are more than a means of transportation. They still characterize the appearance of the British metropolis on the Thames. mm/rc (AFP, Reuters) Each evening at 1830 UTC, DW's editors send out a selection of the day's hard news and quality feature journalism. You can sign up to receive it directly here.