The international community has been quarreling over who has the authority to lead crisis-ridden Venezuela since opposition leader Juan Guaido surprised President Nicolas Maduro by declaring himself president. Read more: Venezuela's Juan Guaido: Who is the interim president? Who's backing Guaido? Within minutes of Guaido's declaration, the United States said it would recognize him as Venezuela's president. Washington has opposed Maduro's reign since he took over from his predecessor and mentor, Hugo Chavez, in 2013. It has slapped sanctions on Maduro's government for committing human rights abuses, undermining democracy and causing the country's debilitating economic crisis.   Canada and almost all countries in Latin America also recognized Guaido after the US announcement. Canada's center-left government opposes Maduro's authoritarian style and supports the opposition as a democratic alternative. Many Latin American countries have in recent years swapped left-wing governments that supported Maduro for right-wing governments that oppose him. Brazil under its new far-right president, Jair Bolsonaro, is among the most notable turn-arounds. Colombia supports Guaido and the opposition to bring back stability to its neighbor. More than a million Venezuelan refugees have fled to Colombia since the country's economic crisis began. The European Union has long criticized Maduro for undermining democracy and the rule of law, imposing sanctions in 2017. However, it has been softer in its support for Guaido than others. Germany, France and the United Kingdom say they support the opposition leader, but have not yet officially recognized him as Venezuela's president. Germany says it would recognize Guaido if Maduro fails to hold fresh elections. Send  Facebook   Twitter   google+   Whatsapp   Tumblr   linkedin   stumble   Digg   reddit   Newsvine Permalink https://p.dw.com/p/3C9W7 Who's backing Maduro? In Latin America, left-wing governments in Cuba and Bolivia refused to recognize Guaido's declaration. During Venezuela's boom years, Caracas sent money and subsidized oil to Cuba. In exchange, Cuba sent educated professionals, including thousands of doctors. Close ties with Maduro's government has been a cornerstone of Bolivia's foreign policy since the election of socialist President Evo Morales. Maduro's most important backer is Russia. Moscow likes having an anti-US ally in Latin America and its biggest oil company, Rosneft, works closely with the Venezuela's state-owned oil company, PDVSA. Russia has also sold military equipment to Maduro's government and also helped it avoid default by agreeing to restructure Venezuela's $3.15 billion (€2.8 billion) debt to Moscow. In the Middle East, Turkey and Iran voiced their support for Maduro as well. Turkey said it opposed what it called "anti-democratic developments" in Venezuela. It has also bolstered its economic ties with the Maduro government in recent years. Iran shares Venezuela's anti-US foreign policy and the two oil-exporters work together in the Organization of the Petroleum Exporting  Countries (OPEC). Who's standing back? Mexico offered Maduro tepid support. It says it recognizes him because it wants to stay neutral. During his presidential campaign, Mexican President Andres Manuel Lopez Obrador pledged to pursue a disinterested foreign policy and focus on domestic problems. China says it also doesn't interfere in other countries' affairs and warned the United States to stay out of the Venezuelan crisis. The Foreign Ministry said Maduro and the opposition should "remain rational and level-headed and seek a political resolution ... through peaceful dialogue within the framework of the Venezuelan Constitution." Beijing is interested in avoiding any disruption in its economic relationship with Venezuela, which owes China more than $20 billion. Violent protests erupted across the country following a Supreme Court decision in late March 2017 to strip the legislative branch of its powers. Amid an international outcry, President Nicolas Maduro reversed the decision, but it was too late. Thousands took to the streets to call for new elections and dozens died in clashes with security forces. Venezuelans spend more than 30 hours a week waiting in lines to shop, and are often confronted with empty shelves when they finally enter a store. President Maduro blames the crisis on US price speculation. The opposition, however, accuses the Socialist government of economic mismanagement. In Colombia, Venezuelans are collecting medical supplies to send home, as seen in this picture. Hospitals around the country have compared conditions to those seen only in war zones. As patient deaths rise, health officials have sounded the alarm on the rise of malaria and dengue fever. Venezuela's pro-government constituent Constituent Assembly was established in July of 2017. The new body adopted the authority to pass legislation on a range of issues, effectively taking away the powers of congress, which was under the opposition's control. The move drew wide international condemnation. In response to the ongoing political crisis, the United States and European Union imposed a series of sanctions against ruling officials. The US has blacklisted members of the Constituent Assembly and frozen all of Maduro's assets that are subject to US jurisdiction. The EU, meanwhile, has banned arms sales to the country and is lining up to freeze assets and impose travel restrictions. In October 2017, Venezuela held two votes: regional elections and elections for governors, which were overdue since 2016. The opposition boycotted the vote, but then split, as some candidates and small parties chose to participate. This caused a deep rift within Maduro's opponents. The government went on to sweep the contest, which detractors say was unfair and heavily favored the regime. Last November the oil-rich, cash-poor nation faced its day of reckoning, as officials met with creditors to hammer out a deal to keep the country from defaulting on its debt — estimated to be up to $150 billion (€127 billion). US and EU sanctions, however, have limited the chance of an agreement. Creditors will almost certainly go after the country's oil reserves. In January, Oscar Perez, Maduro's enemy number one, was found by police in the Caracas neighborhood of El Junquito. The ex-cop had been on the run since he launched grenades at government buildings in the wake of the 2017 protests. The government labeled him a "terrorist." Perez and six other rebels were killed in the ambush, which the opposition denounced as an "extrajudicial killing." The new National Assembly announced in January that it would grant Maduro's call for snap presidential elections on April 22. The electoral authority, CNE, later moved the date to May 20. The EU, the US and 14 Latin American nations warned that they would not recognize the results. The mainstream MUD opposition alliance boycotted the vote. Maduro was re-elected to a second six-year term on May 20 with about 68 percent of the vote. Turnout was only 46 percent, according to the election body. However, the MUD opposition alliance, which boycotted the vote, put turn out at less than 30 percent. The Organization of American States called the elections neither free nor fair. On January 23, 2019, parliament president Juan Guaido declared himself interim president of Venezuela — a move that was quickly recognized by US President Trump. However, Maduro called it a "coup" and insisted he was going nowhere. Author: Kathleen Schuster DW editors send out a selection of the day's hard news and quality feature journalism. You can sign up to receive it here.