The FBI on Friday arrested Roger Stone, a political strategist and longtime ally of President Donald Trump, in Florida. He was charged with seven counts, including obstruction of justice, making false statements to Congress and witness tampering. Special counsel Robert Mueller is investigating 2016 election interference and possible ties between the Trump campaign and Russia. Authorities have already arrested several Trump allies in connection with the probe, including his former lawyer, Michael Cohen. Appearing outside a federal courthouse in Florida, Stone said he would plead not guilty and described the charges against him as "politically motivated." Read more: Mueller's US-Russia probe: What you need to know What we know so far: Read more: Michael Cohen plea signals 'blockbuster indictment,' says Watergate prosecutor Over the summer, a security company hired by the Democratic National Convention tells the DNC that they have been successfully infiltrated by hackers for more than year. Two groups, known as Cozy Bear and Fancy Bear, both have links to the Russian government, the Washington Post reports. At the end of July, the FBI launches an investigation into whether or not the Russian government ordered the DNC hack. Kremlin spokesman Dmitry Peskov calls the move "paranoid." On the campaign trail, Republican nominee Donald Trump encourages Russia to "find the 30,000 emails that are missing." In a series of debates with rival Hillary Clinton, Trump casts doubt on Moscow's role in hacks that targeted the DNC and Clinton's campaign manager, John Podesta. Anti-secrecy website WikiLeaks begins releasing slightly compromising emails from Clinton campaign chairman John Podesta. Co-founder Julian Assange defends targeting Clinton, saying Trump's own statements are indictment enough of the Republican nominee. Over a period of months, WikiLeaks consistently denies allegations that its sources are based in Russia. In a rare moment of complete agreement for the two biggest intelligence agencies in the US, both the FBI and CIA come to the conclusion that the Russian government sought to influence the US election by promoting unfavorable coverage of Hillary Clinton. Trump, who has made no secret of his admiration for Russian President Vladimir Putin, calls the intelligence reports "ridiculous." Anti-Clinton voices slam the probe as a distraction meant to discredit the now president-elect. This puts Trump at odds with Republicans in Congress who call for an independent investigation. At the end of December, the Obama administration expels 35 Russian diplomats and shuts down two Russian intelligence compounds as the Kremlin continues to deny having a role in the summer's cyberattacks. President Putin eschews direct retaliation, saying he will wait to see how President-elect Trump's Russia policies play out. Author: Elizabeth Schumacher What is 'Organization 1'? According to the indictment, "the head of Organization 1 was located at all relevant times at the Ecuadorian Embassy in London, United Kingdom." Julian Assange, who founded anti-secrecy website WikiLeaks, has sought refuge in the Ecuadorian Embassy in London since 2012. Assange matches the description, although the indictment does not specifically name him or WikiLeaks. Read more: Trump will be impeached in 2019, says 'prediction professor' Who is Roger Stone? Stone, 66, is a political consultant who has often worked with Republican politicians, and is well-known among Washington circles for his opposition research. In 2016, he made public comments saying he was in contact with WikiLeaks. At the time, WikiLeaks said it had "never communicated with Roger Stone." On Friday, WikiLeaks released a statement from founder Julian Assange's US lawyer, who criticized Stone's arrest. "The charges against Mr. Stone do not allege that Mr. Stone lied about his [lack of] contacts with Julian Assange, but rather about his contacts with others and about documents reflecting those communications," Assange's lawyer, Barry Pollack, said in the statement. What is the Mueller probe? Former FBI Director Robert Mueller is the special counsel appointed to investigate possible Russian collusion with the Trump presidential campaign. Stone is the 34th person to be indicted in the probe, according to US media. How dangerous is this for Trump? The indictment does not mean Stone has been found guilty. However, observers have questioned why more Trump officials have failed to provide information about their contacts with WikiLeaks, which US intelligence agencies believe works as an extension of Russian intelligence. "Mueller says Roger Stone kept multiple 'senior Trump campaign officials' apprised of his inside intel about WikiLeaks," said Seth Abramson, a columnist for US magazine Newsweek. "Funny how none of those 'senior Trump campaign officials' gave any indication they were getting covert collusive assistance from an enemy of the United States." Donald Trump, meanwhile, responded to Friday's developments with a tweet. Every evening, DW's editors send out a selection of the day's hard news and quality feature journalism. You can sign up to receive it directly here. cmb, ls, dj/cmk (AFP, Reuters, AP)