Philipp Leinemann's new film Das Ende der Wahrheit (The End of Truth) takes a disenchanted behind-the-scenes look at the inner workings of politics. It's a highly topical and entertaining thriller about the complexity of international intelligence services and their increasing reliance on private mercenaries.  DW caught up with Leinemann after the film premiere at the 40th annual Max Ophüls Preis Film Festival in Saarbrücken. DW: What was your inspiration? Philipp Leinemann: I grew up with the Jack Ryan movies [films based on the fictional CIA agent Jack Ryan, the protagonist of a series of books by Tom Clancy — Editor's note] and always wanted to make a political thriller. As a German filmmaker, of course you are obligated to find a German spin to the story, so first I had to find that. My film is about a classic conspiracy that is not resolved in the end, centered on Martin Behrens [played by Ronald Zehrfeld], an agent with the German foreign intelligence service, the BND. How were you able to research a film that focused on intelligence agencies?  Indeed, how do you take a look at what is secret if it's all so sealed off? There are quite a few frustrated former members of the BND who are willing to talk. I met with one of them — a very conspiratorial meeting — and he told me that the people at the BND are actually pleased about books and films about them, even if they're critical. And then there are plenty of people who talk about their work after retirement, as well as good investigative journalists. But the film isn't just about the work of the intelligence services — it takes a look at the entire lobbyist network and the structures in the Middle East, a huge network, a mosaic of many small bits and pieces. My protagonist stumbles in and tries to bring light into the darkness. In the end, darkness still prevails. Read more: How Cannes finally discovered German film Jason Reitman's latest film, The Front Runner, opened in US cinemas late last year. Hugh Jackman plays the role of the former Democratic presidential hopeful Gary Hart (pictured) in spring 1987, the first major US politician to be grilled on his sex life. The film deals with the relationship between politics and the media. In The Front Runner, Jackman takes on the role of the former senator from Colorado, seen as a Democratic favorite in the 1988 presidential race. That is, until reports of an extramarital affair and a photo of Hart with a woman who wasn't his wife — on the unfortunately named yacht "Monkey Business" — brought him down. Compared to the many Trump scandals, Hart's story seems almost harmless today. The film deals with Hart's alleged extramarital affair and the ensuing media frenzy, which ultimately caused him to leave the presidential race. In the 1990s, the Monica Lewinsky scandal and subsequent media attention got then-President Bill Clinton into hot water. Aggressive political reporting also brought down presidential contender John Edwards in 2004. But Trump, so far, appears immune. The latest film from American provocateur Michael Moore looks back at the 2016 presidential election campaign, which surprised many when Donald Trump defeated Hillary Clinton to end up in the White House. In Fahrenheit 11/9, Moore looks at the power of the media in the US and lets Trump's opponents — and fans — have their say. Moore uses his documentary to expose the dangers of American society and politics. But he doesn't just look at Washington; he also travels the country to examine the machinations of corrupt politicians in other US states. In this scene, he confronts former Michigan Governor Rick Snyder with evidence of the Flint contaminated water scandal. Moore, who first met Trump on Roseanne Barr's talk show in 1998, includes a galaxy of stars in his film, mostly opponents of the president. He also criticizes what he considers to be the failed campaign policies of the Democrats, and looks at the grassroots political movements taking shape in the US. Here, survivors of the Parkland school massacre protest support for NRA-affiliated politicians. Vice, which recently won a Golden Globe for Christian Bale's performance as former US Vice President Dick Cheney, also tackles the current political situation in the US. Directed by Adam McKay, it's a portrait of George W. Bush's second in command — and it can also be read as a comment on Trump. In his latest feature film, McKay — who previously directed The Big Short documenting the run-up to the 2008 financial collapse — directs Bale as the shrewd and unscrupulous former vice president. According to McKay, it wasn't George W. Bush who wielded power in the White House — but his "subordinate." In Vice, Cheney and his wife, Lynne, played by Amy Adams, are the actual masters of the Washington political scene, determining where the ship sails. In foreign and military policy, as well as in economic and fiscal matters, they are the ones steering America. McKay's film can also be interpreted as a commentary on the current Trump administration, with Vice President Mike Pence. Does that mean the borders between black and white, between good and evil, are blurred? When you look at today's political world, at people's voting behavior and their evident anger, this yearning for a black-and-white world order is clearly visible. But the world has become so complicated and unmanageable; there are no simple answers. And my film doesn't offer simple answers, either — telling you what to do so that everything will be better. Today, everything is interdependent. The world we live in is just too complex. If you look at the work of intelligence services, at their foreign missions — how should this factor into political decision-making today? Let's start by remembering how it all began: what started the current chaotic situation in Syria, for instance? It was the 2003 Iraq invasion that enabled the "Islamic State" to rise and gain power. And with the chaotic situation back then, that was something the intelligence services didn't even notice. Perhaps we should stop intervening in other countries and other cultures, without a shred of understanding for these cultures, intervening in these conflict regions with their many different groups. Libya is another example. We regularly leave things in chaos. Eventually, that catches up with us. Perhaps we should be less actively involved in the foreign policies of other countries — that could be a first step. Claudia Michelsen stars in the film with Ronald Zehrfeld, Axel Prahl and Alexander Fehling But what about unintended consequences? If the West stays away, won't other countries step in — Russia and China, for instance? Yes, someone will always move in. One power structure is always supplanted by another. If a state breaks down, many groups emerge to wrangle for power. Unfortunately, that's always the case. We've seen that happen in Somalia and many other failed states. China has been active for years and decades in that respect, almost like a colonial power. Now the Russians have followed suit. It's a form of foreign policy that will have consequences. But that's not the key issue in this film, which warns of what can happen when you delegate sovereign matters to private security firms. Can we still control them? Who do these groups work for? For their own benefit? For the state? Are they neutral? If the world is at peace, these companies aren't making any money. Is that the case in Germany? Everything that happens in the film is based on actual background information and events. The CIA conducted secret operations in Germany, abducting German citizens they regarded as terrorism suspects. The government and the secret services also commissioned private firms to conduct these operations, that were later uncovered by journalists. The BND knew about this — at least it must have been aware, because it was a classic intelligence operation. German suspects were abducted from Germany and taken abroad. And the German authorities could then wash their hands of the matter. The End of Truth will open in German cinemas on May 9; it has also been sold for distribution abroad. Leinemann is currently working on a new series for Netflix called The Barbarians, about the Battle of the Teutoburg Forest between Germanic tribes and the Romans in the 1st century AD. Celebrations in Europe's capitals of culture — Plovdiv in Bulgaria and the Italian town of Matera — kick off the new year. Matera's city center with its ancient limestone grottoes has long been a World Heritage site. With an eye as to how culture can lead Europe into a better future, the southern Italian city chose "Open Future" as its 2019 motto. Theaters across Germany will commemorate the 150th birthday of poet/playwright and Berlin bohemian Else Lasker-Schüler on February 11. The Berlin International Film Festival also starts in February, the last Berlinale with Dieter Kosslick at the helm — Carlo Chatrian, the longtime artistic director of the Locarno Film Festival, will take over as the festival's new artistic director in 2020. It's all about books in the eastern German city of Leipzig when its annual book fair opens on March 21 with the Czech Republic as guest of honor. In the western German city of Oberhausen, the Short Film Festival — said to be the world's oldest film festival — celebrates its 65th run. Back in 1962, young German directors at the festival such as Alexander Kluge stated that "Papa's cinema is dead." On April 6, a new Bauhaus Museum opens in the German city of Weimar, where the world-famous school of design and architecture was founded one hundred years before. To coincide with centenary celebrations across Germany, the new museum presents early works from the Bauhaus workshop, and focuses on how Bauhaus artists and architects envisioned people living together. Art lovers around the world admire the works of Leonardo Da Vinci even 500 years after his death on May 2, 1519. Exhibitions in France and Italy commemorate the genius Italian artist, and the Renaissance that followed. That same month, Israel is scheduled to host the Eurovision Song Contest — despite calls to boycott the event. "Dare to Dream" is the song competition's 2019 motto. The music festival season really takes off in June. Music lovers will flock to Rock am Ring at the Nürburgring race track and "Rock im Park" in Nuremburg, both among Germany's largest music festivals. Other events in Germany include the Hurricane Festival and the Southside Festival, while the Roskilde Festival takes place in Denmark and the famed Montreux Jazz Festival in Switzerland. Classical music lovers will have their fill of festivals if they travel to the Austrian town of Salzburg for the annual festival starting on July 20 with Mozart, Strauss, Handel on the bill; or to the annual Bayreuth Festival that kicks off July 25 — Richard Wagner's "Tannhäuser" features, while the composer's great-granddaughter Katharina Wagner is directing "Tristan and Isolde" one last time. The legendary Woodstock Festival took place 50 years ago and rumor has it there just might be a reincarnation this year, with a festival focusing on sustainability, activism and social justice designed to "save the world." In Spain, numerous exhibitions celebrating the 500th anniversary of explorer Ferdinand Magellan's circumnavigation of the globe are in store. With its 49,000 exhibits, the Bauhaus Collection has long been housed in the original 1920s Bauhaus building in Dessau. That collection is now set to move to a spacious new museum in the same city, with an opening on September 8. In Berlin, the Humboldt Forum is scheduled to open right in time for the 250th birthday of world-famous explorer Alexander von Humboldt on September 14. The recipients of the Nobel prizes will be announced in the first half of October and perhaps in 2019, a literature prize will once again be included. That award was canceled in 2018 in the wake of a sexual assault scandal involving the husband of one of the academy members. Rest assured that in Germany, the German Book Prize and the Peace Prize of the German Book Trade will be awarded. Throughout the year, numerous exhibitions are planned in the Spanish capital of Madrid to celebrate 200 years of its illustrious Prado museum, which first opened on November 19, 1819. Film lovers can look forward to the 25th James Bond movie, a sequel to Casino Royale due to be released that month. It may be Daniel Craig's last stint as agent 007. Another event celebrated throughout the year is the 200th birthday of revered German novelist and poet Theodor Fontane, best known for "Effi Briest." The Fontane Festival honoring the German writer who was born on December 30, 1919 begins in May. The European Film Prize is awarded in December, the same month the Society for the German language will announce the Word of the Year. Author: Sabine Oelze (db)  This interview has been condensed and edited for clarity.