Brazilian authorities were evacuating the area near the Corrego de Feijao mine in the country's southeast after the mine's dam that holds residual waste burst on Friday. The cause of the rupture was not immediately clear. Brazilian paper Folha de S.Paulo tweeted a video showing a river of mud. Around 200 people were missing,firefighters said in a statement released from the city of Belo Horizonte, adding that scores were trapped by the river of sludge. Fire brigade spokesman Pedro Aihara said that among the missing were 100 employees of the Vale SA mining company, who were having lunch in the dam's administrative area when the dam burst. Television footage shared by news outlet Universo Online showed firefighters pulling survivors from the mud. Authorities did not immediately release a death toll, but later told local media that seven victims had been pulled from the mud by firefighters. Officials urged the residents in the low-lying areas of the town of Brumadinho to evacuate. Areal images from the affected area showed homes damaged and destroyed by the sludge. Brazil President Jair Bolsonaro said that he had deployed three of his cabinet ministers to the site. "Our biggest concern at this moment is attending to any victims of this grave tragedy," he added. The earth-filled dam was built in 1976 in the state of Minas Gerais. According to Brazil's environmental protection agency, the barrier held 1 million cubic meters (35.3 million cubic feet) of tailings, the residue separated during mining processes. The iron ore mine is managed by Brazilian mining company Vale SA. Following the Friday breach, Vale CEO Fabio Schvartsman said that the dam had been out of use for three years and was being decommissioned. Schvartsman described the collapse as an "enormous tragedy" and said most victims were company employees. The company was already under fire over a separate dam collapse in 2015, which killed 19 people and released millions of tons of toxic waste in the same area. Vale and Australian mining company BHP had jointly managed the Mariana dam at the Samarco iron ore mine. Last year, the companies settled a multibillion civil lawsuit prompted by the incident. cmb, dj/msh (AP, AFP, Reuters) Each evening at 1830 UTC, DW's editors send out a selection of the day's hard news and quality feature journalism. You can sign up to receive it directly here.