For days now, Germany, Austria and Switzerland have been hit by deadly winter storms. Meteorologists have dubbed the extreme weather phenomenon "snow chaos," warning that more is yet to come. Read more: Avalanche kills three Germans in Austrian Alps 17:49 By Monday evening, the German Weather Service said the snowfall looked set to ease, and would gradually subside on Tuesday evening. 16:19 In Austria, a 47-year-old man who had been clearing snow from the roof of a house near Salzburg was killed by an avalanche. He and three other men were carried away by the masses of snow. 14:16  The German Weather Service (DWD) said up to one and a half meters of fresh snow were expected in exposed Alpine congested areas until Tuesday evening, and up to 70 centimeters in the Alpine foothills. 13:38 German Interior Minister Horst Seehofer said more than 200 police offers have been dispatched to help out with emergency efforts in Bavaria. 12:57 A bus operated by the budget travel company Flixbus flipped on its side in Austria. At least 13 people were injured in the accident. 12:23 The Bavarian hunting association warned that the masses of snow pose a life-threatening situation for animals in the area. The association wants to use helicopters to drop hay bales for the animals. "Extreme situations call for extreme measures," said spokesman Thomas Schreder. 11:47 #ICYMI Last week, the Bundeswehr had to deliver supplies to the Alpine town of Berchtesgaden. Here's a photo from the operation: 11:39 Don't know where to start with all the coverage of the deadly winter storms? Here's a wrap-up of the heavy snowfall that has wreaked havoc across Germany, Austria and other parts of central Europe. Send  Facebook   Twitter   google+   Whatsapp   Tumblr   linkedin   stumble   Digg   reddit   Newsvine Permalink https://p.dw.com/p/1HvbH 11:33 Several schools have been closed in Bavaria due to heavy snow. It is the second week of cancellations. 11:13 Extreme weather: global warming or exaggeration? Let us know what you think in our poll.   11:09 German Interior Minister Horst Seehofer visited the fire department of Berchtesgaden, an Alpine town that was cut off by massive amounts of snow. Last week, the Bundeswehr delivered much-needed supplies to the snow-covered town. Send  Facebook   Twitter   google+   Whatsapp   Tumblr   linkedin   stumble   Digg   reddit   Newsvine Permalink https://p.dw.com/p/3BReL 10:42 Police in Bavaria have warned that more rain and snow forecast in the coming days could give rise to dangerous flood waters. In some parts, the water has already started to rise. Read more: Ski resorts cling on against climate change 10:34 In Austria, uncertainty about weather conditions has made it difficult for many to go to work. For those working on the slopes, it's even nearly impossible, according to DW correspondent Amien Essif. Read more: Fresh avalanche threats end brief respite for the Alps 10:27 A large avalanche slammed into a hotel in Bavaria, prompting an evacuation of more than 100 of its occupants. The hotel owner described "massive damage" to at least four buildings. Read more: Winter storms sweep across southern Germany and Austria The snow is piling up. Authorities warned that more snow in the comings days could collapse roofs. 10:00 Hello there! Welcome to DW's rolling coverage of devastating snow storms battering southern Germany, Austria and Switzerland. Over the past few days, several people have been killed by avalanches, including three Germans over the weekend. Authorities have warned that there is more snow forecast in the coming days, which could create more dangerous conditions in the area. Every evening, DW's editors send out a selection of the day's hard news and quality feature journalism. You can sign up to receive it directly here. Send  Facebook   Twitter   google+   Whatsapp   Tumblr   linkedin   stumble   Digg   reddit   Newsvine Permalink https://p.dw.com/p/3BTS6 law,ls/rt (dpa, AP)