The United States Justice Department unsealed two indictments against China's Huawei Technologies Co Ltd., several of its subsidiaries and its chief financial officer Meng Wanzhou on Monday. Meng was arrested in Vancouver and later released on bail in December. She faces extradition to the United States. The case strained Chinese relations with both the US and Canada. The charges Huawei 'threatens' global marketplace During the Justice Department's announcement of the unsealed indictments, Christopher Wray, the director of the US Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI), said the cases "expose Huawei's brazen and persistent actions to exploit American companies and financial institutions, and to threaten the free and fair global marketplace." He also expressed his concern about Huawei devices in US telecommunications networks. "That kind of access could give a foreign government the capacity to maliciously modify or steal information, conduct undetected espionage, or exert pressure or control." China's reaction On Tuesday, China's foreign ministry responded to the charges by accusing the US of "unreasonable suppression" of Chinese companies and urged Washington to lift the arrest warrant against Meng. The ministry also said that Beijing would resolutely protect the lawful interests of Chinese companies. "There are strong political motivations and political manipulations behind the actions," the foreign ministry said in a statement. Send  Facebook   Twitter   google+   Whatsapp   Tumblr   linkedin   stumble   Digg   reddit   Newsvine Permalink https://p.dw.com/p/3BkMF Who is Meng Wanzhou? She is the CFO and deputy chairwoman of Huawei Technologies as well as the daughter of the company's founder, Ren Zhengfei. She was detained in Vancouver at the beginning of December but was released on bail a week after her arrest. She currently is staying in one of her family's homes in Vancouver as she awaits a decision from a Canadian court on a US extradition request. A hearing is set for February 6. Chinese retaliation? A week after Meng's arrest, China arrested two Canadians, business consultant Michael Spavor and ex-diplomat Michael Korvig, for "endangering national security." A Chinese court also overturned another Canadian drug-trafficking suspect's 15-year jail term and sentenced him to death. Send  Facebook   Twitter   google+   Whatsapp   Tumblr   linkedin   stumble   Digg   reddit   Newsvine Permalink https://p.dw.com/p/39mxp US-China trade war: The unsealed indictment comes days before US-China trade talks are scheduled to resume in Washington. US Commerce Secretary Wilbur Ross insists the Huawei cases are "wholly separate" from trade negotiations. The US imposed 10 percent tariffs on $200 billion (€170 billion) worth of Chinese goods, which caused Beijing to respond with tariffs of their own on $60 billion worth of US goods. Both sets of tariffs took effect in September 2018. In a meeting at December's G20 summit in Argentina, US President Donald Trump and his Chinese counterpart, Xi Jinping, agreed on a 90-day stop to new tariffs. Read more: Can fresh US-China trade talks bring a breakthrough? Every evening at 1830 UTC, DW's editors send out a selection of the day's hard news and quality feature journalism. You can sign up to receive it directly here. dv/se (AFP, Reuters, AP)