In an open letter quoted by newspapers belonging to Germany's Funke media group Monday, more than 100 European parliamentarians called on the United Kingdom to call off Brexit, saying such a decision would be welcome in the EU. The draft letter is expected to be published in Britain a day before a crucial vote in the British parliament on Prime Minister Theresa May's draft Brexit deal, which observers are expecting to fail. What the EU lawmakers said: Read more: Opinion: Britain's hour of destiny After a shrill referendum campaign, nearly 52 percent of British voters opted to leave the EU on June 24. Polls had shown a close race before the vote with a slight lead for those favoring remaining in the EU. Conservative British Prime Minister David Cameron, who had campaigned for Britain to stay, acknowledged the 'will of the British people' and resigned the following morning. Former Home Secretary Theresa May replaced David Cameron as prime minister on July 11 and promised the country that "Brexit means Brexit." May had quietly supported the remain campaign before the referendum. She did not initially say when her government would trigger Article 50 of the EU treaty to start the two-year talks leading to Britain's formal exit. May eventually signed a diplomatic letter over six months later on March 29, 2017 to trigger Article 50. Hours later, Britain's ambassador to the EU, Tim Barrow, handed the note to European Council President Donald Tusk. Britain's exit was officially set for March 29, 2019. Tusk ended his brief statement on the decision with: "We already miss you. Thank you and goodbye." British Brexit Secretary David Davis and the EU's chief negotiator, Michel Barnier, kicked off talks in Brussels on June 19. The first round ended with Britain reluctantly agreeing to follow the EU's timeline for the rest of the negotiations. The timeline split talks into two phases. The first settles the terms of Britain's exit and the second the terms of the EU-UK relationship post-Brexit. The second round of talks in mid-July began with an unflattering photo of a seemingly unprepared British team. It and subsequent rounds ended with little progress on three phase one issues: How much Britain still needed to pay into the EU budget after it leaves, the post-Brexit rights of EU and British citizens, and whether Britain could keep an open border between Ireland and Northern Ireland. Progress appeared to have been made after round six in early November with Britain reportedly agreeing to pay up to £50 billion (€57 billion/$68 billion) for the "divorce bill." May had earlier said she was only willing to pay €20 billion, while the EU had calculated some €60 billion euros. Reports of Britain's concession sparked outrage among pro-Brexit politicians and media outlets. Leaders of the remaining 27 EU members formally agreed that "sufficient progress" had been made to move on to phase 2 issues: the post-Brexit transition period and the future UK-EU trading relationship. While May expressed her delight at the decision, European Council President Tusk ominously warned that the second stage of talks would be "dramatically difficult." British ministers appeared to back a Brexit plan at May's Chequers residence on July 6. The proposal would have kept Britain in a "combined customs territory" with the EU and signed up to a "common rulebook" on all goods. That went too far for British Foreign Minister Boris Johnson and Brexit Secretary Davis. They resigned a few days later. May replaced them with Jeremy Hunt and Dominic Raab. The Chequers proposal did not go down well either with EU leaders, who told her at a summit in Salzburg in late September that it was unacceptable. EU Council President Tusk trolled May on Instagram, where he captioned a picture of himself and May looking at cakes with the line: "A piece of cake perhaps? Sorry, no cherries." The gag echoed previous EU accusations of British cherry-picking. EU leaders endorsed a 585-page draft divorce deal and political declaration on post-Brexit ties in late November. The draft was widely condemned by pro- and anti-Brexit lawmakers in the British Parliament only weeks earlier. Brexit Secretary Dominic Raab resigned along with several other ministers, and dozens of Conservative Party members tried to trigger a no-confidence vote in May. In the face of unrelenting opposition, May postponed a parliamentary vote on the deal on December 10. The next day, she met with German Chancellor Angela Merkel to seek reassurances that would, she hoped, be enough to convince skeptical lawmakers to back the deal. But while she was away, hard-line Conservative lawmakers triggered a no-confidence vote. May won the vote a day later. Author: Alexander Pearson Welcome to stay Peter Liese, MEP and Christian Democratic Union lawmaker in the center-right European People's Party, told the Funke news group: "We want to send a signal to the people and, as such, to the House of Commons and make it clear that if the British decide to stay, they are welcome." In Germany, industry leaders have warned of the dire consequences of a no-deal Brexit. Eric Schweitzer, president of the German Chamber of Commerce and Industry, said: "In Germany, about 750,000 jobs depend on trade with the United Kingdom. Without a deal, millions of additional customs declarations and billions of custom duties would need to be paid." Read more: No Brexit renegotiation, Angela Merkel tells Bundestag Send  Facebook   Twitter   google+   Whatsapp   Tumblr   linkedin   stumble   Digg   reddit   Newsvine Permalink https://p.dw.com/p/3BUwV Crucial vote British Parliament is scheduled to hold a pivotal vote on May's Brexit plans on Tuesday. But observers believe she doesn't have enough support to make it through. Some British lawmakers have suggested extending the Brexit deadline, which is currently set for March 29. But Manfred Weber, lead candidate for the European People's Party, said that such an extension should not go beyond European parliamentary elections slated for May. Read more: Germany pledges full EU support for Ireland over Brexit May's last stand As the UK prepares for a decisive vote on May's draft deal, the prime minister will make her last stand speaking to factory workers in Stoke-on-Trent, a post-industrial town that voted overwhelmingly for Brexit. During her speech, she is expected to say that she believes British lawmakers will opt to remain in the EU instead of crash out of the bloc without a deal. "There are some in Westminster who would wish to delay or even stop Brexit and who will use every device available to them to do so," May will say. She will then call on lawmakers to "consider the consequences of their actions on the faith of the British people in our democracy." Read more: Opinion: What happened to Brexit architect David Cameron? Send  Facebook   Twitter   google+   Whatsapp   Tumblr   linkedin   stumble   Digg   reddit   Newsvine Permalink https://p.dw.com/p/3B7pb ls/rt (AFP, dpa) Every evening at 1830 UTC, DW's editors send out a selection of the day's hard news and quality feature journalism. You can sign up to receive it directly here.