US President Donald Trump announced a breakthrough in the standoff with lawmakers over the partial federal shutdown on Friday, with the Senate moving quickly and passing a short-term funding bill hours after his announcement and the House of Representatives following shortly after. "I am very proud to announce today that we have reached a deal to end the shutdown and reopen the federal government," Trump told reporters at the White House before the legislation was voted on in Congress. He added that the deal would temporarily reopen the US government for three weeks, until February 15. Trump vowed to pay back federal employees who have continued to work through the 35-day shutdown, which is the longest in US history. The deal did not appear to include Trump's demand for $5.7 billion (€5 billion) to fund a wall on the US-Mexico border. However, he said that a "bipartisan conference committee" of lawmakers in the Democrat-controlled House of Representatives and the Republican-controlled Senate would work on border security issues. Send  Facebook   Twitter   google+   Whatsapp   Tumblr   linkedin   stumble   Digg   reddit   Newsvine Permalink https://p.dw.com/p/3BRbU At the end of his speech, Trump hinted that he was considering taking unilateral action or triggering another shutdown if negotiations on funding a wall at the US-Mexico border failed by the February 15 deadline. Later on Friday the Senate unanimously passed the bill ending the shutdown, recalling to work thousands of federal workers who had been forced to stay home and providing back pay for two missed paychecks. The measure then proceeded to the House of Representatives, where it also passed with unanimous support. It will now be sent to Trump for final signoff into law. Read more: Opinion: Trump's shutdown takes anti-government sentiment to new extremes Deal without border wall funds Congress members will use the three-week period before the temporary funding expires to reach a compromise on the issue of border security. While he acquiesced to the stopgap funding bill, Trump underlined that he had not abandoned his goal of a border wall. He devoted the majority of his speech to defending the need for a physical barrier with Mexico, saying that "walls work." The border wall was one of his main campaign promises and a project that he'd repeatedly vowed that Mexico would pay for. The president did, however, appear to tone down his general plans for the wall, saying that he had never proposed a coast-to-coast barrier. "We do not need 2,000 miles of concrete wall from sea to shining sea. We never did," Trump said, adding that his plans now involve sections of a "smart wall" that will be see-through, made of steel and have drones patrolling it. Trump had clashed with Democrat lawmakers over the border wall for weeks, saying he would not reopen government without first securing funding for the project. As midnight approaches on September 30 of each year, it's go time for Congress: approve a budget or shut down government operations. Originally, Article I, Section 9 of the Constitution required lawmakers to approve the budget. Honing it further in 1870, the Antideficiency Act targeted agencies that spent money without asking. But meeting deadlines was a chronic problem. That is, until the 1980s. At the behest of President Jimmy Carter, the US attorney general revisited the Antideficiency Act in 1980 to answer the question: "Without a budget, are government employees required to work?" According to Benjamin Civiletti's legal opinion, no money meant no work. Carter's presidency saw only small shutdowns, but the new interpretation of the law turned shutdowns into a negotiating tactic. The first real shutdown — over 240,000 workers furloughed, more than $80 million (€65 million) down the drain — occurred in November 1981. Still in his early days, President Ronald Reagan refused to sign a budget without billions in tax cuts. The Republican-controlled Senate and the Democrat-controlled House found a solution by the next day. This happened seven more times by his last year in 1989. Budget impasses were largely drama-free until 1995, when President Bill Clinton faced off against Senate Majority Leader Bob Dole and House Speaker Newt Gingrich (pictured left). The Republican-led Congress wanted a balanced budget within seven years, higher Medicare premiums and rollbacks on environment regulations. It took 27 days in total to strike a deal. The cost: at least $1 billion. Many departments such as the military, national security and any deemed essential to the protection of life continue working during shutdowns. But agencies such as the Internal Revenue Service, the Food and Drug Administration and the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention must cease operations. This results in delays on tax decisions, food inspection and disease research among other problems. The next major shutdown came in 2013 under President Barack Obama. His Affordable Health Care Act — or Obamacare — faced stark opposition from conservative House Republicans. Led by Senator Ted Cruz, the group pushed for drastic curbs on the health care act in exchange for raising the debt ceiling. The 18-day shutdown resulted in the furlough of some 850,000 workers. The cost: $24 billion. The latest shutdown, which started in late December, is already among the longest in history. Hundreds of federal workers are going without pay. Despite the disruption, President Donald Trump has refused to budge on his insistence that funding for the Mexico border wall be included in the budget. In fact, the president has said he is prepared for the impasse to go on for years. The prohibitive cost of shutting down some government operations has not tamed the trend. Washington loses millions not just in revenue, but also in back pay, even though furloughed employees stay at home. So, time lost, work lost — and money lost. According to ratings agency Standard and Poor's, the current rate for a shutdown will cost the US roughly $6 billion per week. But the biggest loser is not the economy, or the party that makes the most concessions. Arguably, it's the government itself. According to a Gallup poll in the aftermath of the 2013 shutdown, public dissatisfaction with the government in general rose to 33 percent. The previous all-time high regarding political dysfunction was 26 percent during the Watergate scandal. Author: Kathleen Schuster Shutdown hits airports The temporary deal came as the effects of the five-week shutdown began to spread on Friday, impacting air traffic at East Coast airports. Earlier on Friday, the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) reported delays at New York's LaGuardia Airport as well as international airports in Newark and Philadelphia over air traffic control staffing issues. Air traffic controllers, airport screening staff and other Transportation Security Administration (TSA) staff are among the federal workers who have not been paid during the shutdown. The shutdown began on December 22 when funding for a portion of the US federal government ran out. For the past five weeks, hundreds of thousands of federal workers have been furloughed or required to work without pay. Send  Facebook   Twitter   google+   Whatsapp   Tumblr   linkedin   stumble   Digg   reddit   Newsvine Permalink https://p.dw.com/p/3Bo47 cmb, rs/cmk (AP, dpa, Reuters, AFP) Every evening, DW's editors send out a selection of the day's hard news and quality feature journalism. You can sign up to receive it directly here.