+++ Please refresh (F5) for the latest updates +++ Bayern Munich 1-0 Stuttgart (Thiago 5') 10' David Alaba somehow escapes a yellow card after he looks at his man before shouldering him to the floor with the ball long gone. Rules anyone? No? Ok. As you were. 8' Well, the bad news for Stuttgart is that Bayern are already running riot here. Kimmich flashes a low drive just past the far post. Dortmund managed five yesterday. Bayern look like they're ready to at least match that today. 5' GOAL! 1-0 Bayern (Thiago) I was just about write that Bayern are slowly growing into the game, but that Stuttgart looked well positioned. Ah well. This is a beautiful goal. Kimmich drops a ball into the box to set up Coman, but he is forced wide and loses it, Müller gets the cross back in though, where Lewandowski stabs it back to Thiago. He sidefoots a shot perfectly in the bottom corner with Stuttgart's defense all left looking rather hopeless. Worth watching again. 1' Off we go! - There's lots of speculation about whether or not Bayern are about to sign Callum Hudson-Odoi. If social media is to be believed. That's a slippery slope... - TEAMS! Bayern Munich keep Leon Goretzka in the 10 after his sterling performance in the 2019 opener, and otherwise the team looks the same. Never change a winning team and all that. Stuttgart, on the other hand, don't know what a winning team is and so Markus Weinzierl changes again, handing a debut to new central defender Ozan Kabak. Talk about throwing someone in at the deep end. More interestingly, Mario Gomez is on the bench. So Stuttgart will be playing on the break then. Bayern Munich XI: Neuer - Alaba, Hummels, Süle, Kimmich - Thiago, Martinez - Coman, Goretzka, Müller - Lewandowski Stuttgart XI: Zieler - Insua, Kempf, Kabak, Beck - Gentner, Ascacibar - Zuber, Gonzalez, Esswein - Donis - Good afternoon! All eyes are on Bayern Munich, as usual. Except this time, the question is more about who they are this season?They seem to have rediscovered their form, and the expectation is that they'll win handsomely against a poor Stuttgart side today, but will they?