US President Donald Trump said he was putting forth a plan to solve what he called a "humanitarian crisis" on the Mexican border and immediately reopen the government. Trump has been seeking $5.7 billion (€5 billion) to build a border wall and has vowed to keep the government shut until Congress approves the funds. The government has been shut down since December 22, making it the longest in US history. The political impasse has affected 800,000 federal employees, many of which have been obliged to work without pay. Read more: Counting the cost of the US government shutdown Trump's proposal: 'I want this to end' In his speech Saturday from the White House, Trump was clear in reiterating the importance of the border wall, "As a candidate for president I promised I would fix this crisis and I intend to fix this crisis one way or the other." He said previous presidents had not made real progress on immigration, which had led to "tragic consequences." He added that undocumented immigration reduced wages and put a strain on state resources. "I want this to end," Trump stressed, adding that it was time to "reclaim our future from the extreme voices" of the left that "favored open borders." The plan, Trump said, represented "a compassionate response" to the crisis at the border. Read more: Trump's wall poses serious threat to endangered wildlife Democrats say "no" Prior to the speech, the White House made the proposal public, stressing the DACA and TPS extensions. Both programs have been imperiled by Trump, as he sought to end them early in his presidency. The fate of more than 700,000 DACA recipients, young people who entered the US illegally before the age of 14, has rested on the courts since Trump announced his plan to end the program. House Speaker Nancy Pelosi dismissed Trump's plan as a "non-starter." "His proposal is a compilation of several previously rejected initiatives, each of which is unacceptable and in total, do not represent a good faith effort to restore certainty to people's lives," Pelosi said. Read more: Opinion: Donald Trump uses old tricks in shutdown talks with new Congress What happens next? Trump said he would send the proposal as a bill to the Senate and that Republican leader Mitch McConnell had pledged to bring a bill to a vote this week. If passed, the president promised to hold weekly bipartisan meetings to work on a wider immigration reform compromise.  Meanwhile, Nancy Pelosi said that House Democrats would vote next week on their own proposal, whch would include"additional border security funding for ports of entry, advanced technology for scanning vehicles for drugs & immigration judges." jcg/sms (AP AFP) Send  Facebook   Twitter   google+   Whatsapp   Tumblr   linkedin   stumble   Digg   reddit   Newsvine Permalink https://p.dw.com/p/3Bo47 Each evening at 1830 UTC, DW's editors send out a selection of the day's hard news and quality feature journalism. You can sign up to receive it directly here.