Clashes broke out between riot police and protesters in Athens on Sunday as thousands of people took part in a rally against the Greek government's name change deal with Macedonia, which is currently officially referred to as the Former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia. "We cannot stomach this deal, to give away our Macedonia, our history," Amalia Savrami, a 67-year-old pensioner, told Reuters news agency. "Macedonia is Greek, period," she added, waving a large blue and white Greek flag. Police fired tear gas to disperse protesters outside of parliament after a group of protesters threw rocks, paint, flares, fireworks and other objects. One man wearing a Greek flag attacked police with a large stick while others also struck officers by swinging large flags on wooden poles. Protesters threw paint, rocks and other objects at police — who responded with tear gas Nine officers were reportedly injured, according to police. There were no immediate reports of injuries among protesters, although local media reported that police used batons and mace on the crowds. Authorities estimated that some 60,000 people took part in the rally, while the demonstration's organizers claimed that 100,000 were present. Hundreds of buses brought in people to the rally from across the country, but especially from northern Greece. Controversial name change deal The protest comes ahead of a key vote on whether or not to accept a deal to change the name of Macedonia, an ex-Yugoslav republic, to the Republic of North Macedonia. Greek Prime Minister Alexis Tsipras and his Macedonian counterpart Zoran Zaev agreed on the deal in June to end a decades-long dispute. In exchange for changing the name, Greece is also supposed to stop blocking Macedonia's bid to join NATO and the European Union. Greece's parliament will start debating the accord on Monday, with lawmakers set to vote on whether or not to ratify it on Friday. The naming issue is an emotional one for many Greeks, with many arguing that the name "Macedonia" is a key part of Greek heritage The protesters vehemently oppose the deal because they believe the name Macedonia implies territorial claims over Greece's northern region, which bears the same name. The issue also strikes a chord with many Greeks who consider the ancient kingdom of Macedonia, which was ruled by Alexander the Great, to be a key part of Greek heritage and identity. Although numerous Greek parties across the political spectrum oppose the deal, it still has a chance of gaining the votes necessary to ratify it. Macedonia's parliament recently ratified the deal, but it still needs Greece's approval. Tsipras' ruling coalition fell apart over the deal, but he narrowly survived a vote of confidence last week. As well as Greece and the Former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia, the geographic region of Macedonia extends into Albania, Bulgaria and Serbia as well as small areas of Kosovo (which you can't quite see here). The ancient kingdom of Macedonia – or Macedon – was a relatively small part of the present day Greek province of Macedonia. It first expanded under King Perdiccas I, then widened to take in other areas. After the fall of the Greek Empire, the Romans – who admired Alexander – used the old name Macedonia for the province encompassing much of northern Greece and the area north of it – including much of the modern-day Former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia. With the breakup of the Roman Empire into East and West, this region was overrun by the Slavic invasions. An entirely new province far to the east, including part of Thrace in modern-day Turkey, was named Macedonia by the Byzantine Empress Irene of Athens. The geographic region known as Macedonia today roughly equates to the part of the Ottoman Empire known as Ottoman Vardar Macedonia. It included Greek and Slavic areas and was split into three administrative units, but the concept of Macedonia persisted. This remained the case for centuries and so this concept – of what Macedonia is – has stuck. ...and there's certainly a fair bit of overlap — and room for confusion. Of course, Macedonia's King Alexander the Great's realm stretched all the way to India — but it would be a bit of a stretch to call that Macedonia As if it weren’t complicated enough, there’s another meaning of the word Macedonia. In Greece and many Latin-language-speaking countries, it’s also a fruit salad. The name is thought to have ben popularized at the end of the 18th century, referring to either the ethnic diversity of Alexander's vast empire or the ethnic mix of Ottoman Macedonia. Author: Richard Connor rs/jm (AP, AFP, dpa, Reuters) Each evening at 1830 UTC, DW's editors send out a selection of the day's hard news and quality feature journalism. You can sign up to receive it directly here.