The murder of Pawel Adamowicz marks a dark day in Polish history, particularly so because the attack was committed in Gdansk, the city where peaceful protests set in motion the collapse of Soviet-style communism in the late 20th century — and even more so because it was carried out at a charity event that had brought together altruistically minded people from across the political spectrum. Adamowicz had served as mayor of Gdansk for over 20 years and was re-elected just months ago. The assassin has a criminal record and is apparently psychologically disturbed. Yet his statement at the crime scene right after the attack leaves no doubt that he acted on a political motive. The responsibility for Adamowicz's death lies squarely with those who have sowed political discord and stoked hatred in Polish society in recent times. DW's Bartosz Dudek The mayor was intensely disliked by Poland's nationalists, in part for offering to welcome and accommodate refugees in Gdansk. Adamowicz was also the country's first mayor to establish a special council to address migrant-related issues. And he opted to host the 2016 anniversary celebration of Poland's Constitutional Court in Gdansk when the right-wing Law and Justice government refused to do so. Send  Facebook   Twitter   google+   Whatsapp   Tumblr   linkedin   stumble   Digg   reddit   Newsvine Permalink https://p.dw.com/p/3BYSO A right-wing target In recent years, Adamowicz, who had been an independent since 2015, was targeted out by government-affiliated media outlets for shaky scandal stories on graft. Yet the smear campaign apparently backfired as Adamowicz was elected to his sixth term in office in November. The residents of Gdansk, a liberal and open-minded city, clearly did not care for the bad press. Even so, Adamowicz's enemies directed fierce vitriol at the mayor — and created a hateful atmosphere that ultimately resulted in his tragic death. Adamowicz's assassination should serve as a stark warning that hatred and divisiveness ought to have no place in Polish and EU politics. What is needed is greater respect for dissenting political opinions and a willingness to foster compromise. As Poland mourns the mayor's death, one can hope that the country's right-wing leaders will come to their senses. Candles surrounded a picture of Gdansk Mayor Pawel Adamowicz as people paid tribute to him after he was killed. Adamowicz died in hospital on Monday, January 14 after being stabbed at a charity event the day before. Adamowicz, 53, was attending an event organized by the Great Orchestra of Christmas Charity when a man stormed onstage and stabbed him. The Gdansk mayor was rushed to the hospital and underwent five hours of surgery in an attempt to save his life. Security personnel quickly pinned down the perpetrator before police arrested him. A spectator video showed the suspect, allegedly a 27-year-old who was released from prison last month, claiming he had been wrongly jailed and tortured by the government. Thousands of people marched against violence and hatred in Gdansk in the wake of Adamowicz's death. Gdansk, a port city in northern Poland, was the birthplace of Solidarity, an anti-communist trade union and social movement in the 1980s in which the late mayor took part. Donald Tusk, the president of the European Council and a former Polish Prime Minister, led a moment of silence at a gathering at the main old city square in Gdansk to mourn Adamowicz's death. "I want to promise you today, dear Pawel, that for you and for all of us, we will defend our Gdansk, our Poland and our Europe from hatred and contempt," Tusk told the crowd. Several thousand people also marched through the Polish capital of Warsaw after Adamowicz' death. One held a sign reading "stop the politics of hatred." Marches also took place in the cities of Krakow in the south and Poznan in central Poland. Author: Davis VanOpdorp At 1830 UTC, DW's editors send out a selection of news and features. Sign up to receive it here.