Four men went on trial Thursday for the theft of a 100-kilogram (220-pound) Canadian commemorative gold coin from Berlin's Bode Museum in March 2017. Three men are accused of stealing the 
coin  and a fourth suspect who worked as a guard at the museum for a private security firm is accused of acting as an inside man. They have denied all accusations. Read more: Berlin 24/7: After the theft of the Big Maple Leaf The indictment read out by Chief Prosecutor Martina Lamb accused the four defendants of the theft and demanded that €3.75 million ($4.3 million) be confiscated from them, a price that corresponds to the sales value of the gold. The "Big Maple Leaf" coin is one of five coins each worth 1 million Canadian dollars produced by the Royal Canadian Mint in 2007. It features a portrait of Queen Elizabeth II and is considered to be the world's second-largest gold coin. Security camera footage from the night shows three young men wearing dark hoodies make their way to the museum, following earlier trips they had made to scope out the site. Send  Facebook   Twitter   google+   Whatsapp   Tumblr   linkedin   stumble   Digg   reddit   Newsvine Permalink https://p.dw.com/p/3BIfN Coin likely damaged during theft The thieves allegedly broke in through a window and used a rope, wooden beam and a wheelbarrow to lift the coin — which has a diameter of 53 centimeters (21 inches) — onto elevated urban railway tracks before taking it away in a car. The coin was likely damaged after the thieves dropped it twice, first on the tracks that pass the museum and cross the Spree River, and then in Monbijou park on the opposite river bank. Police have been unable to find any trace of the coin since it was stolen from the museum and believe it "was either cut into small pieces or taken abroad," said Berlin police at the time of the theft. One of the men's lawyers, Toralf Nöding, said Thursday that police investigations had "not produced a single piece of substantial evidence" against the accused. The world's most famous portrait, Leonardo da Vinci's "Mona Lisa," was stolen in 1911. A young Italian named Vincenzo Peruggia took the painting from the Louvre in Paris. Dressed as a member of the museum staff, he was able to hide the relatively small painting under his work coat. It reappeared in 1913 after an art dealer alerted the police. Rembrandt's portrait of "Jacques III de Gheyn" wasn't stolen from Britain's Dulwich Picture Gallery just once, but four times, namely in 1966, 1973, 1981 and 1986. That's why it came to be nicknamed the "Takeaway Rembrandt." Fortunately the painting has been recovered after each theft. The burglary of 13 paintings from the Isabella Steward Gardner Museum stirred international attention in 1990. Two men disguised as policemen broke into the building and removed the paintings, among them Edouard Manet's "Chez Tortoni" and Jan Vermeer's "Concert" (pictured). The empty picture frames are still hanging on the walls. In 1991, a man managed to lock himself into a bathroom in the Van Gogh Museum in Amsterdam — unnoticed. With the help of a warden, he removed a total of 20 paintings, among them the Dutch painter's "Self portrait with Easel." However, police were able to recover the works from the getaway car just one hour later. The thieves were caught a few months later. "Madonna of the Yarnwinder" by Leonardo da Vinci, valued at €70 million ($76 million) was stolen from a Scottish castle in 2003. Two thieves who entered an exhibition as tourists overpowered the security guard at Drumlanrig Castle and fled with the precious artwork. It remained lost for years until it was discovered during a raid in Glasgow in 2007. Two paintings by expressionist Edvard Munch, "The Scream" and "Madonna," were stolen in Oslo in 2004. Two armed robbers invaded the Munch Museum and, witnessed by numerous visitors, ripped the paintings from the wall. Police were able to retrieve the two famous paintings. However, "The Scream" was damaged so badly during the incident that it could never be fully restored. In 2008, armed thieves pilfered four paintings amounting to a total value of 180 million Swiss francs (€156 million, $182 million) from the collection Bührle in Zurich. "The Boy in the Red Vest" by Paul Cézanne, "Ludovic Lepic and His Daughters" by Edgar Degas, "Blossoming Chestnut Branches" by Vincent van Gogh, and "Poppy Field Near Vétheuil" by Claude Monet (pictured) all resurfaced later on. In March 2017, a huge gold coin weighing 100 kilos was stolen from Berlin's Bode Museum. Just its sheer material value alone amounts to four million dollars. It is believed that the thieves found their way into the building through a window. The "Big Maple Leaf" coin originated in Canada. It is 53 cm high and 3 cm thick. On the front side, it bears an image of Queen Elizabeth II. Author: Ines Eisele (ad) Alleged crime family links The Berliner Zeitung daily newspaper and other German media reported that the three accused of the theft are brothers and are relatives of the 
Remmo  family with roots in Lebanon, several of whose members have been linked to organized crime. Lebanon police last year targeted the Remmo clan with the seizure of 77 properties worth a total of €9.3 million, charging that they were purchased with the proceeds of various crimes, including a bank robbery. Read more: How Berlin's Lebanese mafia clans work In court, Nöding denounced media reports that any of the accused were related to the Remmo family. The giant coin was on loan from an unidentified collector to the Bode Museum, which describes its large exhibition of coins and medals as a "chronicle of human history forged in metal." If found guilty, the alleged perpetrators could face up to 10 years in jail. law/msh (AFP, AP, dpa)