Tens of thousands of tourists have fled some of Thailand's most popular beach resorts as the country braces for Tropical Storm Pabuk. The storm — feared to be the worst to hit Thailand since 1989 — threatens to pound some of the country's popular island destinations such as Koh Samui, Phuket and Krabi with heavy downpours and strong winds The Thai Meteorological Department said the storm was moving west into the Gulf of Thailand with maximum winds of 65 kilometers (40 miles) per hour, bringing high waves and gusty winds ahead of its expected landfall on Friday. Thai authorities on Thursday suspended ferry services and began evacuations in the provinces of Nakhon Si Thammarat and Surat Thani — expected to be the worst hit. Surat Thani is home to the popular tourist islands of Koh Samui, Koh Tao and Koh Phangan. "There will be heavy rainfall and we have to be prepared for flooding or an impact on transportation," Prime Minister Prayuth Chan-ocha said. "We are ready ourselves, but if the rainfall is high we will need some time to resolve problems." Read more: The world's deadliest hurricanes, typhoons and cyclones Hurricane, typhoon, and cyclone are actually three names for the same phenomenon. Along the North American coast they are called hurricanes, in East and Southeast Asia they are called typhoons, and near India and Australia they are called cyclones. But despite the different names, they develop in the same way. Tropical storms develop over oceans when the water temperature is at least 26 degrees Celsius (79 degrees Fahrenheit). As the warm water evaporates and condenses, the air around it heats up and drags cooler air upwards, creating powerful winds. The Earth's rotation causes the air stream to move around the eye of the storm, which can be up to 50 kilometers wide. This area is nearly completely free of clouds and wind. When a tropical storm hits a coastline, it becomes weaker due to the lack of warm water. In Australia, "Marcia" was soon downgraded to a category one storm, while "Lam" weakened after striking near Brisbane. Masses of water from the sea often cause the worst damage - as seen here in China after Typhoon Nanmadol in August 2011. Hurricane Sandy was one of the strongest hurricanes ever recorded over the Atlantic Ocean. It caused waves of up to 4 meters high, fires, power outages and broken dykes. Sandy arrived with winds at speeds of more than 145 kilometers per hour. Cuba, New York and New Jersey were particularly affected. Tornadoes however, are non-tropical whirlwinds that can occur anywhere a storm is brewing. Local temperature differences force warm air upwards and cold air down, and a column of warm air rotates upwards at an increasing velocity. Tornadoes are usually only a maximum of 1 kilometer in diameter. As the warm air rises, it forms a funnel, the main characteristic of a tornado. Inside the funnel, the speed of the air can be tremendous - up to 500 kilometers per hour. Tornadoes are the fastest whirlwind type of weather phenomenon. A tornado can leave a trail of destruction several kilometers long. In the US Midwest, tornadoes occur several hundred times a year, as dry, cold air from the north hits damp, warm air from the Gulf of Mexico. It's different in other countries - in Germany, for example, tornadoes occasionally occur along the coast. Author: Brigitte Osterath / ew Flights canceled Koh Phangan and Koh Tao, which were packed with holiday-makers during the peak Christmas and New Year season, have emptied out since Wednesday. "I think the islands are almost empty... between 30,000 and 50,000 have left since the New Year's Eve countdown parties," said Krikkrai Songthanee, Koh Phangan district chief. Bangkok Airways, which has a virtual monopoly on the air route to Koh Samui, canceled all flights to and from the island, potentially stranding tourists. Some hotel operators reported a few early checkouts and said they were prepared. "Since the morning we have prepared sand bunkers and we have barricaded glass windows. We have also prepared first aid kits, torches, water, food and fuel for the hotel's power generator," said Ampawan Taopheng, manager of Lub D Koh Samui on Chaweng Beach. Russian tourist dies A Russian man drowned on Koh Samui on Wednesday after his family ignored warnings not to go into the sea. "A family of three went swimming but the strong current caught a 56-year-old man who drowned," said Boonnam Srinarat, a local police officer. "Island officials announced the warning and put up the red 'danger' flags... but maybe the family did not think the situation was that serious." According to UNICEF, nearly 1.7 million children are among the approximately 4.1 million people displaced by Typhoon "Haiyan." Having lost their homes and loved ones, children living in the disaster zone are suffering from acute trauma and continue to face daily challenges due to ongoing disruptions. On the beaches of Tanauan, south of Tacloban City, many children are flying kites made of old cloth, or plastic bags. Tanauan was one of the areas hardest-hit by the typhoon. The majority of residents is still living in tents. Despite the hardships they endure, children are trying to find a bit of normalcy again by creating games and toys from trash and debris. Sofia (11) and her little brother Roy (6) are proud of their home-made kite, created from an old plastic bag, strings and a used can of sardines. "Flying the kite makes me happy because I feel free as a bird," says the young girl. Her family lost everything during the storm, including their fishing boat. A local NGO recently provided them with a new boat, so now, only the fishing net is missing. Using an old fridge as a boat, José (14) and his friend Mikel (13) make the most of their afternoon at the beach on the outskirts of Tacloban. The boys are attending school in a tent for two hours every day. Having lost all their belongings, they live in makeshift huts made from debris. In the Tacloban area, thousands of families are currently living in temporary accommodation. The boy playing on this fallen tree is from Palo, a municipality next to Tacloban. Palo is one of the most severely devastated coastal towns in Leyte province. Many homeless and orphaned children live here, relying solely on distributed relief goods for their survival. Children are sliding here on the ruins of their school in San Roque, outside of Tacloban. San Roque elementary school was completely devastated. As a result, the children are attending classes in shifts. "We need more books, paper and crayons. It is difficult to concentrate in the tent classroom, as it’s very hot and dusty inside," said one of the pupils. The village of Anibong, outside of Tacloban, was completely destroyed by cargo vessels heaved inland by the storm surge. In the aftermath of the typhoon, Joshua (14) and Daniel (6) moved into the very vessel that destroyed their homes. Together with other surviving family members, they now have sought shelter in a wooden bunkhouse, but still don't have access to water, sanitation, or electricity. On one of the stranded vessels in Anibong, young boys have found materials to construct wooden toys. Basketball is the most popular sport in the Philippines. All over the affected areas, youngsters have set up small courts - even here in Anibong, next to a stranded cargo ship. These two boys playing amid debris outside Tacloban are typical for the Philippines. According to the 2010 national census, about a third of the country's population is less than 15 years old. In Tacloban, the city hit hardest by Typhoon Haiyan, that would equate to 74,000 children under 15 in a city of 221,000 residents. Author: Roxana Isabel Duerr ap/rt (AP, Reuters, AFP) Each evening at 1830 UTC, DW's editors send out a selection of the day's hard news and quality feature journalism. You can sign up to receive it directly here.