The trial of the deadly 2014 attack on the Belgian Jewish Museum in Brussels opened on Thursday under a heavy security presence. It began with an introduction of the defendants followed by the prosecution reading out its 184-page statement detailing the investigation, according to Belgian news agency Belga. The attack is considered one of the first claimed by the "Islamic State" (IS) militant group on European soil. More than 100 witnesses are expected to testify, including four French journalists who say they were held captive in Syria by one of the perpetrators. What happened: Read more: Jews in Europe alarmed by rising anti-Semitism Send  Facebook   Twitter   google+   Whatsapp   Tumblr   linkedin   stumble   Digg   reddit   Newsvine Permalink https://p.dw.com/p/3BBeL 'Terrorist murder' Both men have been charged with "terrorist murder." Both deny any wrongdoing. At least 120 witnesses are expected to testify during the trial. Prosecutors will begin cross-examining the suspects on Tuesday. If convicted, both suspects face potential life sentences. The jury consists of four women and eight men. Read more: Are Europeans getting used to terror attacks? Terror attacks in Europe The shooting is part of a series of terror attacks that swept across several Western European capitals, many of them claimed by IS. Nemmouche is believed to have fought with an Islamist group in Syria from 2013 to 2014 — key witnesses in the case are expected to say they recognize him as their IS jailer. While in Syria, he met Najim Laachraoui, who formed part of the gang-turned-terror cell that committed the 2016 Brussels attacks that killed 32 people. The Belgium-based gang is allegedly responsible for partly coordinating the Paris attacks that killed 130 people in 2015. Both attacks were claimed by IS. More than 260 people were killed in attacks in France, Belgium and Germany between 2014 and 2016. Read more: Opinion: The normality of terrorism Every evening, DW's editors send out a selection of the day's hard news and quality feature journalism. You can sign up to receive it directly here. The "Islamic State" (IS) — also known as ISIL, ISIS and Daesh — is an al-Qaida splinter group with a militant Sunni Islamist ideology. It emerged in the aftermath of the US-led invasion of Iraq in 2003 and is led by Abu Bakr al-Baghdadi. Their goal is to create a worldwide "caliphate." It gained worldwide notoriety in 2014 after a blitzkrieg military campaign that resulted in the capture of Mosul. IS is believed to be operational in more than a dozen countries across the world. It controls territories in Iraq and Syria. However, the group has lost much of the territory it controlled in Iraq and Syria at the height of its expansion in 2014. The US leads an international coalition of more than 50 countries, including several Arab nations. Russia, Iran and its Lebanese Shiite ally Hezbollah, which all support the Syrian government, also fight IS. Regional forces such as the Kurdish peshmerga (above) and US-backed Syrian Kurdish fighters, fight IS on the ground. The Iraqi army and militia have pushed IS from large parts of the country. One of IS' main sources of income has been oil and gas. At one point, it controlled an estimated one-third of Syria's oil production. However, US-led airstrikes deliberately targeted oil resources and the Syrian government as well as US-backed Syrian Kurdish fighters have retaken most oil wells. Other means of income include taxes, ransom, selling looted antiquities and extortion. IS has claimed responsibility for numerous terrorist attacks across the globe. The militant group has targeted capitals across the EU, including Berlin, Brussels and Paris. IS leaders have encouraged so-called "lone wolf" attacks, whereby individuals who support IS carry out terrorist acts without the direct involvement of the group. The group uses various tactics to expand its power. IS fighters have looted and destroyed historical artifacts in Syria and Iraq in an attempt at "cultural cleansing." The group has also enslaved thousands of women from religious minority groups, including Yazidis. IS also uses a sophisticated social network to distribute propaganda and recruit sympathizers. IS has further exacerbated the ongoing Syrian conflict. Millions of Syrians and Iraqis have fled their homes, many traveling to Europe in pursuit of refuge. Although it has lost all of its strongholds, the militant group has left extraordinary destruction in its wake. Areas affected by the militant group's rule will likely take years to rebuild. Author: Rachel Stewart ls/msh (dpa, AFP)