Airport security personnel went on strike for the second time this week, this time affecting airports in Cologne, Dusseldorf and Stuttgart. The strike at Stuttgart airport began at 3:00 a.m. local time (2:00 UTC) on Thursday while the strikes at the Cologne/Bonn and Dusseldorf airports began at midnight. Munich was also hit by minor strikes. In Dusseldorf, 370 of 580 departures were canceled at Germany's third-largest airport. In all, more than half of the 1,050 flights from Dusseldorf, Cologne/Bonn and Stuttgart were canceled. The airport association ADV had expected at least 110,000 travelers to be affected. Stuttgart Airport urged would-be passengers to arrive early due to "long waiting times." Verdi, Germany's largest trade union, announced the strike on Wednesday. The union is currently in a wage dispute with the BDLS, an organization representing Germany's airport security companies. Read more: Ryanair strikes deal with German pilot union Send  Facebook   Twitter   google+   Whatsapp   Tumblr   linkedin   stumble   Digg   reddit   Newsvine Permalink https://p.dw.com/p/1DPrf Wage increase On Monday, security workers carried out a four-hour strike at Berlin's Tegel and Schönefeld airports, causing around 80 flights to be delayed. Verdi has demanded an hourly wage increase to €20 ($22.79) for security staff checking passengers, freight, goods and other airport employees. The BDLS has rejected this as too high. Wages vary by airport and by precise role, the flat rate would represent unusually high increases for some. Both sides are expected to continue negotiations on January 23. Verdi has warned that a breakdown in negotiations could lead to more strikes at German airports. Read more: Germany's 2018 unemployment hits record yearly low Every day, DW's editors send out a selection of the day's hard news and quality feature journalism. Sign up for the newsletter here. While en route to a G20 summit in Buenos Aires in November, the A340-300 "Konrad Adenauer" carrying German Chancellor Angela Merkel and Finance Minister Olaf Scholz had to make an unexpected landing at the Cologne/Bonn Airport. Merkel showed up late to the conference in the Argentinian capital. It was the second consecutive month in which the "Konrad Adenauer" needed to be grounded. The A340 also left Scholz stranded in Indonesia following a meeting of the International Monetary Fund in October after rodents gnawed through electric cables. The "Konrad Adenauer" isn't the only Airbus belonging to the German government that has experienced problems. The A340 "Theodor Heuss" jet carrying German President Frank-Walter Steinmeier experienced technical problems during his trip to several countries in Africa. Steinmeier also had his fair share of woes with the "Konrad Adenauer" jet. The German president's trip to Belarus in June was delayed due to problems with the plane's hydraulic system. German Development Minister Gerd Müller's schedule was thrown into chaos when he was forced to cancel a visit to Namibia — because of plane trouble. Müller was scheduled to depart Malawi when his Bombardier Global 5000 was unable to take off due to a defective pressure valve. He was eventually able to continue on to Zambia on a commercial flight. Author: Davis VanOpdorp dv/msh (AFP, dpa)