Germany's Federal Office for IT Safety (BSI) said on Saturday that it had only become aware of a massive data breach affecting hundreds of lawmakers on Friday, several weeks after a lawmaker had told BSI officials about suspicious activity on personal accounts. "Everybody assumed it was an isolated case," the BSI said. "Only by becoming aware of the release of the data sets via the Twitter account 'G0d' on January 3, 2019, could the BSI in a further analysis on January 4, 2019 connect this case and four other cases that the BSI became aware of during 2018," it added. BSI head Arne Schönbohm said on Friday that the agency had spoken with "some lawmakers" affected by the breach in early December. The statement prompted outrage among other hacking victims, who assumed BSI had known about the issue and failed to inform them. Read more: Six hack attacks that shook the world Anger at BSI "I am outraged that I am learning about the data leak from the media, even though I am a member of the parliament's Intelligence Oversight Committee and Home Affairs Committee," Left party lawmaker Andre Hahn told the media group Redaktionsnetzwerk on Saturday. Günter Krings, a conservative lawmaker from the Christian Democrats, also criticized authorities. "The obligation of the federal government to inform parliament also applied between Christmas and New Year," he told the Rheinische Post newspaper. Send  Facebook   Twitter   google+   Whatsapp   Tumblr   linkedin   stumble   Digg   reddit   Newsvine Permalink https://p.dw.com/p/3B3iC Massive security breach The security breach, uncovered by journalists on Thursday, targeted all of Germany's political parties currently represented in the federal parliament except for the far-right Alternative for Germany (AfD). It also impacted the European, German and state parliaments as well as municipal officials and celebrities. Read more: Germany detects new cyberattack targeting politicians, military Data published on Twitter starting in early December included mobile phone numbers, contact info and credit card details from members of Germany's major parties. The leak also included banking and financial details, ID cards and private chats. Among the apparent targets were Chancellor Angela Merkel and President Frank-Walter Steinmeier. Merkel's successor at the helm of the CDU party, Annegret Kramp-Karrenbauer, was also targeted. German movie star Till Schweiger and comedian Jan Böhmermann were also hit by the hacking attack, along with several other celebrities. BSI: Not our responsibility But a preliminary review of the documents discovered no sensitive government information had been released and government networks were not accessed, according to the BSI. The agency also said it was not responsible for protecting the data that had been compromised. "The BSI can only act in an advisory capacity and provide support when it comes to securing party or private communication between lawmakers," it said. Most of the data stems from private and personal accounts of the victims, according to the agency. Two people were arrested in Britain on Saturday after allegedly attempting to hack the Washington DC CCTV surveillance camera system just days before President Donald Trump's inauguration. US media said 123 out of almost 200 cameras throughout the city were disabled by ransomware software. Officials feared a bigger attack may have been planned for the day of Trump's swearing in. The Netherlands said it will count ballots from its election on March 15 by hand after fears its vote counting software is vulnerable to hacking. Several Dutch ministries and even the prime minister's office have been targeted by Russian and other hackers. The rise of anti-Islam politician Geert Wilders (pictured) has piled pressure on mainstream parties in the upcoming vote. Norway said Russian-based hackers have attempted to break into email accounts linked to the domestic intelligence agency. None of the accounts, used by the Foreign Ministry, the military, a university, the nuclear watchdog and the opposition Labour party, were used for classified information. A probe has begun into whether the group known as APT29 - also known as Cozy Bear - was responsible. Several US radio stations in South Carolina, Indiana, Texas, Tennessee, and Kentucky have been hacked by anti-Trump activists, the Verge reported. Instead of the stations' usual music format, an unstoppable audio loop of YG and Nipsey Hussle’s hip hop track "F**k Donald Trump" played out. It apparently took the stations several hours to fix the problem. The Czech Republic's foreign minister has confirmed that his own email account - and those of colleagues in the Foreign Ministry - have been hacked. TheNeovlivni.cz news site reported "thousands of files" were retrieved, but the Foreign Ministry has denied classified information was obtained. Russia has not been blamed publicly, but, privately, officials are pointing the finger at the Kremlin. An Austrian luxury hotel is to replace its electronic room cards with old fashioned keys after blackmail-hungry hackers gained access to its locking system. The Romantik Seehotel Jaegerwirt in the Austrian Alps says it's been repeatedly targeted. In one incident, the owners had to pay 1,500 euros to ransom software hackers to get the room cards working again. David Beckham has blamed a hacked email account after British media alleged he sent a string of foul-mouthed private emails over his failure to be named Sir David by Britain's Queen Elizabeth II. The Football Leaks website claims the soccer star was frustrated that he wasn't given a knighthood and dismissed a lesser award known as the Order of the British Empire (OBE). Author: Nik Martin Berlin was now looking into tougher security regulations for software manufacturers and internet platforms, Germany's Justice Minister Katarina Barley told Die Welt newspaper. 'Alarming,' but not surprising Social Democrat parliamentarian Helge Lindh was one of the victims of the attack. He told DW that although the hack was "alarming," he was not surprised it happened. "There is evidence of a number of phishing attacks and data leaks collected over a sustained period of time," he said. "It is shocking that politicians are so vulnerable, and it is our task to improve security." The documents were posted online as early as December by a Hamburg-based Twitter account that released them in an Advent calendar style. The Twitter account describes itself with labels such as security research, artist and satire. The account has since been suspended. The authenticity of the leaked data could not be immediately verified and no discernible pattern could be detected to the leaked documents. There is currently no known suspect or motivation. Send  Facebook   Twitter   google+   Whatsapp   Tumblr   linkedin   stumble   Digg   reddit   Newsvine Permalink https://p.dw.com/p/3B2eV kw,cw/amp (dpa, Reuters, AFP, AP) Every evening at 1830 UTC, DW's editors send out a selection of the day's hard news and quality feature journalism. You can sign up to receive it directly here.