A major Paralympic swimming event will no longer take place in Malaysia due to that government's ban on Israeli athletes taking part in events, the International Paralympic Committee (IPC) said on Sunday. Malaysia was due to host the 2019 World Para Swimming Championships, a qualifying event for the 2020 Tokyo Paralympics. In a statement, the IPC said the decision to strip Malaysia of the right to host the event was taken after the Home Ministry "failed to provide the necessary guarantees that Israeli Para swimmers could participate, free from discrimination, and safely in the Championships." "When a host country excludes athletes from a particular nation, for political reasons, then we have absolutely no alternative but to look for a new Championships host," IPC President Andrew Parson said. The IPC said it is currently looking for an alternative site to host the event, which was due to take place from July 29 through August 4. Israel hails move as 'victory of values' Israeli Foreign Ministry spokesman Emmanuel Nahshon praised the IPC's decision, saying that it was "a victory of values over hatred and bigotry, a strong statement in favor of freedom and equality." Malaysia, a majority-Muslim country that does not have diplomatic relations with Israel, announced earlier in January that Israelis would be barred from participating in events held in the country. Israel condemned the ban, saying it was likely prompted by Prime Minister Mahathir Mohamad's "rabid anti-Semitism." Mahathir, 93, has been repeatedly accused of anti-Semitism for his comments against Jewish people, including an interview last October in which he described Jews as "hook-nosed" and blamed them for conflicts in the Middle East. Send  Facebook   Twitter   google+   Whatsapp   Tumblr   linkedin   stumble   Digg   reddit   Newsvine Permalink https://p.dw.com/p/2URVB Malaysia defends ban Despite the IPC's decision on Sunday, Malaysian officials defended the decision to bar Israelis, with the country's minister of youth and sports saying that the move was to show solidarity with Palestinians. "If hosting an international sporting event is more important than standing up for our Palestinian brothers and sisters who get murdered, maimed and tortured by the Netanyahu regime, that means Malaysia has truly lost its moral compass," Syed Saddiq Syed Abdul Rahman said in a statement. The IPC said that when Malaysia was awarded the event in 2017, it had received assurances from the government that all countries would be allowed to participate, but a "change of political leadership" meant "the new Malaysian government has different ideas." "Politics and sport are never a good mix and we are disappointed that Israeli athletes would not have been allowed to compete in Malaysia," IPC head Parson said. The multi-talented 36-year-old is a hand-cyclist in summer and biathlete and cross-country skier in winter. In her previous five appearances at the summer and winter paralympics, Eskau has won six gold medals. At her sixth appearance in Pyeongchang, she will carry the flag for the German team. The 36-year-old snowboarder is a professional cotocross racer and X-Games veteran. He lost his left leg in an accident during a snowcross race in 2008 when he was thrown from his snowmobile. Schultz is the founder of BioDapt Inc, a company which specializes in the production of synthetic limbs for snowboarders. Schultz has the honor of carrying the flag for Team USA at the opening ceremony. After winning five gold medals in Sochi in 2014, the 25-year-old mono-skier is under huge pressure to deliver again in Pyeongchang. Despite her tender age, Schaffelhuber has already been crowned world champion nine times and was named para-athlete of the year in 2016. This will be her third paralympic games. Lösch made her winter paralympics debut in Vancouver in 2010 and is Anna Schaffelhuber's biggest rival on the piste. As well as competing in all alpine disciplines, Lösch will also carry the flag for the Austrian team at the opening ceremony. After a last-minute ruling by the IPC, Lysova will be allowed to compete at the Paralympics after all following allegations of doping. Not everyone is impressed but the Russian is now looking forward to her third winter games, where she will compete in biathlon and cross-country skiing. The 24-year-old from France is the favorite in the standing alpine skiing competition. Bochet has been skiing since the age of five and often took part in races with able-bodied athletes. She won the Laureus World Sports Award for Women's Para-Athlete of the Year in 2014 and doesn't consider the defect in her lower left arm to be a handicap. In four previous appearances at the Winter Paralympics, the 38-year-old cross-country skier and biathlete has already won 13 medals - including ten golds. McKeever only has ten per cent vision and made his paralympic debut in Salt Lake City in 2002. How many medals can he add to his tally in Pyeongchang? At 48 years old, Ehler is the oldest member of the German team. Initially hailed as a sporting talent in his home country of Kazakhstan, his career looked to have been ended after a motorcycle accident. But, following an operation which shortened his left leg by nine centimeters, Ehler is now fulfilling his dream of competing in the Olympics, despite only having been a para-athlete for a year. Known at "Messi on ice," Jung Seung-hwan is the star of the South Korean ice hockey team and the official ambassador for the Pyeongchang Paralympics. The 31-year-old is taking part in his third Paralympic Games. Norway topped the medals table at the Olympic Games last month and 19-year-old Pedersen is among the favorites to add another gold for his country at the Paralympics. The alpine skier is also a keen wheelchair handball and football player. A car dealer back home, Nico Messinger is competing in his first Paralympic Games in Pyeongchang. The 23-year-old has limited vision and skis behind a guide in biathlon who gives him instructions. When shooting, he wears headphones and gets his bearings using audio signals. 23-year-old Joany Badenhorst is Australia's first ever female flag-bearer at the Winter Paralympics. Four years ago in Sochi, she suffered an injury during training on day one of the Games and was forced to miss the tournament. Hopefully, she'll be able to make her debut this time around! rs/jm (AFP, Reuters) Each evening at 1830 UTC, DW's editors send out a selection of the day's hard news and quality feature journalism. You can sign up to receive it directly here.