WhatsApp announced on Monday that it was restricting worldwide how many times any given message can be forwarded from 20 to five. "Starting today, all users on the latest versions of WhatsApp can now forward to only five chats at once, which will help keep WhatsApp focused on private messaging with close contacts," the Facebook-owned messaging service said in a statement. WhatsApp will roll out an update, first to Google's Android system and then to Apple's iOS, to activate the new forwarding limit, according to Reuters news agency. Read more: Facebook deletes hundreds of Russian troll pages First India, then the world The limit is an expansion of a measure WhatsApp introduced in India in July after spreading rumors led to killings and lynching attempts. The company also ran advertisements in newspapers to raise awareness about fake news. WhatsApp said the extension of the restriction to all users came after a six-month review of user feedback. "We'll continue to listen to user feedback about their experience, and over time, look for new ways of addressing viral content," the WhatsApp statement read. WhatsApp, founded in 2009 and purchased by Facebook in 2014, said in early 2018 that it has 1.5 billion users on its platform who exchange 65 billion messages per day. It has been trying to stop misuse of its service following global concern that it was being used to spread fake news as well as manipulated photos and videos. The app's encryption software allows groups of hundreds of users to exchange texts, photos and video which neither independent fact checkers nor the platform itself can oversee. The messaging service featured prominently in Brazil's presidential election in October. Newly elected President Jair Bolsonaro has been accused of using the app to spread false information related to his opponent during the election, something that he denies.  Whether hate speech, propaganda or activism, governments across the globe have upped efforts to curb content deemed illegal from circulating on social networks. From drawn-out court cases to blanket bans, DW examines how some countries try to stop the circulation of illicit content while others attempt to regulate social media. After a public debate in Germany, a new law on social media came into effect in October. The legislation imposes heavy fines on social media companies, such as Facebook, for failing to take down posts containing hate speech. Facebook and other social media companies have complained about the law, saying that harsh rules might lead to unnecessary censorship. In 2014, the European Court of Justice ruled that European citizens had the right to request search engines, such as Google and Bing, remove "inaccurate, inadequate, irrelevant or excessive" search results linked to their name. Although Google has complied with the ruling, it has done so reluctantly, warning that it could make the internet as "free as the world's least free place." In May 2017, Ukraine imposed sanctions on Russian social media platforms and web services. The blanket ban affected millions of Ukrainian citizens, many of whom were anxious about their data. The move prompted young Ukrainians to protest on the streets, calling for the government to reinstate access to platforms that included VKontakte (VK), Russia's largest social network. In 2015, the European Court of Justice ruled that Safe Harbor, a 15-year-old pact between the US and EU that allowed the transfer of personal data without prior approval, was effectively invalid. Austrian law student Max Schrems launched the legal proceedings against Facebook in response to revelations made by former US National Security Agency (NSA) contractor, Edward Snowden. In China, the use of social media is highly regulated by the government. Beijing has effectively blocked access to thousands of websites and platforms, including Facebook, Twitter, Instagram and Pinterest. Instead, China offers its citizens access to local social media platforms, such as Weibo and WeChat, which boast hundreds of millions of monthly users. Many politicians and media outlets blame Russia's influence for Donald Trump's election victory in 2016. Moscow reportedly used Facebook, Twitter, Google, and Instagram to shape public opinion on key issues. In October 2017, Twitter suspended over 2,750 accounts due to alleged Russian propaganda. The platform also banned ads from RT (formerly Russia Today) and the Sputnik news agency. With social media under pressure for allowing alleged Russian meddling, Facebook announced a new project to combat such efforts in November 2017. The upcoming page will give users a chance to check if they "liked" or followed an alleged propaganda account on Facebook or Instagram. Meanwhile, Facebook has come under fire for not protecting user data in the wake of the Cambridge Analytica scandal. Author: Lewis Sanders IV (dj) Each evening at 1830 UTC, DW's editors send out a selection of the day's hard news and quality feature journalism. You can sign up to receive it directly here. dv/se (AFP, Reuters)