Two bombs have exploded outside a church during Sunday Mass in the southern Philippines, killing at least 27 people and injuring 77 others, officials have said. The first bomb went off outside the Roman Catholic cathedral on Jolo island in Sulu province, and a second one exploded a minute later near the main entrance. Images from the scene showed the door, pews and glass windows of Mount Carmel Cathedral were blown off, and bodies were strewn across the ground, a photographer working for the Agence France-Press (AFP) news agency said. President Rodrigo Duterte's spokesman condemned the incident as an "act of terrorism and murder." "The motive is surely ... terrorism. These are people who do not want peace," regional military spokesman Lieutenant Colonel Gerry Besana told AFP. He said investigators were focusing on determining the type of explosives used in the attack to help identify a suspect. No group has claimed responsibility for the attack which claimed the lives of both troops and civilians. Send  Facebook   Twitter   google+   Whatsapp   Tumblr   linkedin   stumble   Digg   reddit   Newsvine Permalink https://p.dw.com/p/3AE80 Muslim autonomy deal The twin blasts occurred nearly a week after minority Muslims in the mostly Roman Catholic nation approved a new autonomous region in the southern Philippines. The creation of the Bangsamoro Autonomous Region of Muslim Mindanao was part of a 2014 peace agreement between the Philippine government and the Moro Islamic Liberation Front (MILF), the largest Muslim rebel group. Although most of the Muslim areas approved the autonomy deal, voters in Sulu province, where Jolo is located, rejected it. Jolo island has been a stronghold of Abu Sayyaf, an Islamist extremist group labeled as a terrorist organization by the United States and the Philippines. The group is known for bombings, beheadings and kidnappings. Defense Secretary Delfin Lorenzana ordered security to be stepped up across the province, amid concerns of further attacks. "I have directed our troops to heighten their alert level, secure all places of worships and public places at once, and initiate pro-active security measures to thwart hostile plans." mm,cw/cmk (AP, dpa) Send  Facebook   Twitter   google+   Whatsapp   Tumblr   linkedin   stumble   Digg   reddit   Newsvine Permalink https://p.dw.com/p/3Bsm2 Every day, DW's editors send out a selection of the day's hard news and quality feature journalism. Sign up for the newsletter here.