Heathrow Airport, London's main port of entry, on Tuesday said it had suspended all departing air traffic after reports that a drone was seen in the area. Last month, London's Gatwick Airport halted all flights after drones were flown in restricted airspace at the airport. What happened: Military to deploy systems British Transport Minister Chris Grayling said the military "are preparing to deploy the equipment used at Gatwick at Heathrow quickly should it prove necessary." Grayling said he had discussed the measure with the interior and defense ministers. The disruption came hours after the government announced it will move forward with plans "to give police new powers to tackle drones misuse and abuse." "Passengers have to be able to travel without fear of their trips being disrupted by malicious drone use," said Grayling in a statement to Parliament on Monday. "Airports must be prepared to deal with incidents of this type, and the police need the proper powers to deal with drone offenses." Not the first time Last month, a drone scare at Gatwick Airport on the outskirts of London grounded about 1,000 flights, disrupting travel plans for roughly 140,000 people. Police detained a man and woman over the incident, but later released them citing lack of evidence connecting them to a crime. Heathrow and Gatwick airports have reportedly sought to buy military-grade anti-drone systems. Drones are dangerous because they pose significant risks to landing and departing aircraft. When it comes to passenger numbers, no airport can measure up to the one in Atlanta. Almost 104 million people passed through Hartsfield-Jackson air-traffic hub in 2017, according to data provided by airport association ACI. No other airport has managed to break 100 million. This makes Hartsfield-Jackson number one on our list. China has its own favorite: Beijing Capital International Airport ranks second in the number of passengers, welcoming 95.8 million people in 2017. The air-traffic infrastructure was built up ahead of the 2008 Olympic Games. UK star architect Norman Foster designed a new, sprawling terminal for the event. In 2017, Dubai's airport welcomed over 88 million passengers. Almost all of them were non-Arabs — as many as 87.72 million. Many of them apparently appreciate Dubai International for its almost legendary reputation for shopping. Alas, the Japanese capital is not in the top three, but its airport still boasts 85.4 million visitors per year, enough for a solid fourth place in our ranking. If you go on vacation to California, chances are you will land at Los Angeles International Airport, better known as the LAX in America. The flow of passengers does not quite measure up to the Atlanta airport, but it still had over 85.5 million visitors last year. Even in Chicago, there is no rest from fans for German football star Bastian Schweinsteiger. The former Bayern Munich and Manchester United midfielder now plays for Chicago Fire, and frequently flies through O'Hare. Schweinsteiger is only one of 79.81 million passengers who go through the Chicago hub, which is named after an American WWII pilot. London boasts three airports, the largest and most well known of which is Heathrow. It services just over 78 million passengers per year. And it manages all that with just two runways. You don't have to be in a plane to sneak a good look at Hong Kong's competitor, called Chek Lap Kok Airport locally. The compound is similarly impressive from a cable car as it may have been for the 72.67 million passengers who travelled through it in 2017. Hong Kong, or "fragrant harbor" in English, is built on reclaimed land on the island of Chek Lap Kok in the South China Sea. Safety first! One of Shanghai's two airports ranks just behind Hong Kong's. Pudong International Airport served 70 million passengers in 2017. This marks a slight drop from the year before, but cargo flights picked up by over 11 percent, according to ACI. The Paris airport named after President de Gaulle, also known as Roissy airport, comes in at number 10 on our list of busiest air-traffic hubs. Last year, it welcomed 69.47 million passengers. But those figures are not everything in an airport ranking; There are also parameters such as the amount of goods transported, the size, the number of terminals and many more. And then there is the amount of time it takes to actually build an airport. In that respect, the Germans might well be No. 1. Perhaps it's simply a question of definition: The nine years that have so far passed since construction began could be seen as evidence of thoroughness. ls/rt (AP, Reuters) Every evening at 1830 UTC, DW's editors send out a selection of the day's hard news and quality feature journalism. You can sign up to receive it directly here.