Saudi national Rahaf Mohammed Alqunun started posting on Twitter late Saturday after Thai officials stopped her in transit from Kuwait. She had intended to flee to Australia as she was intercepted in Bangkok. Alqunun claims to be fleeing her family, which she says has subjected her to physical and psychological abuse. The young woman posted about being in "real danger" if she is forced to return to her family in Saudi Arabia. She later said that she had barricaded herself in her hotel room until she could see officials from the UN High Commissioner for Refugees (UNHCR). Alqunun told the Agence France-Presse news agency she had been stopped by Saudi and Kuwaiti officials when she arrived at Bangkok's Suvarnabhumi Airport, where her passport and travel documents were forcibly taken from her, a claim backed by Human Rights Watch. "They took my passport," she told AFP, adding that her male guardian had reported her for traveling without his permission. She posted a photograph of her passport to Twitter, saying it was to confirm both her identity and her age. Thai authorities have confirmed the 18-year-old was denied entry into the country on Sunday. Germany's ambassador to Thailand, Georg Schmidt, wrote: "We share the considerable concern for Rahaf Mohammed and are in contact with the Thai side and with the embassies of the countries she has turned to." Thai authorities won't deport Alqunun's lawer Nadthasiri Bergman filed an injunction at a Thai court to block the woman's deportation, but it was swiftly rejected. "They said we do not have enough evidence," she said, adding the legal team planned to appeal. Nevertheless, Thai authorities announced they would not send the 18-year-old back to Saudi Arabia. Major General Surachate Hakparn, Thailand's head of immigration police, said Alqunun would not be sent back against her wishes. Surachate Hakparn told reporters that the woman will be allowed to meet UN refugee officials later on Monday to discuss her situation. jcg, jlw/msh (AFP, AP, Reuters, dpa) Each evening at 1830 UTC, DW's editors send out a selection of the day's hard news and quality feature journalism. You can sign up to receive it directly here.