The head of the biggest political grouping in the European Parliament on Tuesday slammed the European Union's slow response to Venezuela's power struggle in an interview with DW. "It really was a tragedy to see that Europe was not able to act in a quick and appropriate manner," Manfred Weber said. Weber, who is favored to take over at the European Commission after elections in May, said the bloc needed to revamp the way it voted on foreign policy positions. Currently, all member states have to unanimously agree on a position for the EU to adopt it. The bloc should change to a majority vote system, Weber said. "Otherwise we will always be weak and not capable to deliver," he said. Scattered EU response The EU made no joint declaration on behalf of its 28 member states to indicate support for either President Nicolas Maduro or opposition leader Juan Guaido. Instead, it released a statement condemning violence and calling for free elections to be announced "over the next days." Germany, France, Spain and the United Kingdom have however said they would be ready to recognize Guaido as interim president unless Maduro agreed to hold free elections by February 3. Read more: Maas: Germany backs Guaido Opposition leader Juan Guaido declaration split the international community. Weber poised to lead Commission Veteran German politician Manfred Weber was nominated last November as the European People's Party's (EPP) candidate for European Commission President. The EPP is the largest political group in the European Commission and is predicted to win the most seats in elections scheduled for May. As lead candidate, Weber is favored to take over as EC president from Jean-Claude Juncker. This means changes to bloc decision-making on foreign policy could be on the cards. The current unanimity system slowed down a combined EU response to Maduro's re-election in 2018 amid divisions over whether to pursue diplomacy or impose sanctions. The elections were widely criticized as being unfair, but sanctions were only imposed on Maduro and his closest officials, over a month after the election date. "We as Europeans have a common value base," Weber told DW. "We have to show on a global level that we are willing to defend these principles, also with our friends for example in South America." Read more: The EU in 2019: Challenges and crises await Venezuela explained Venezuelan opposition leader Juan Guaido stunned the international community last week by declaring himself president. The announcement came two weeks after President Nicolas Maduro was sworn in for a second term, a move that caused tens of thousands to take to the streets of Caracas in protest. The US, Canada and many Latin American countries announced they would recognize the opposition leader as the new head of state. Russia, China, and Turkey among other countries continue to back Maduro, saying external interference in the country’s politics is against international law. Read more: Venezuela: Nicolas Maduro, Juan Guaido vie for military control nn/aw In March 2017, violent protests erupted across the country in response to a Supreme Court decision to strip the legislative branch of its powers. Amid an international outcry, President Nicolas Maduro reversed the decision, but it was too late. Thousands continued to take to the streets, calling for new elections. More than 100 people were killed in clashes with security forces. The violence added to the ongoing economic and political crisis in Venezuela. Many Venezuelans spend more than 30 hours a week waiting in lines to shop, and are often confronted with empty shelves when they finally enter a store. President Maduro blames the crisis on US price speculation. The opposition, however, accuses the Socialist government of economic mismanagement. The crisis has even affected health care in the oil-rich nation. Venezuelans often head to Colombia to collect medical supplies to send home, as seen in this picture. Hospitals across Venezuela have compared conditions to those seen only in war zones. As patient deaths rise, health officials have sounded the alarm on the rise of malaria and dengue fever. By July 2017, Venezuela's pro-government Constituent Assembly was established. For observers, it had all the hallmarks of a power grab. The new body adopted the authority to pass legislation on a range of issues, effectively taking away the powers of Venezuela's elected congress, which was under the opposition's control. The move drew wide international condemnation. In response to the political crisis, the United States and European Union imposed a series of sanctions against ruling officials. The US blacklisted members of the Constituent Assembly and froze all of Maduro's assets that are subject to US jurisdiction. The EU banned arms sales to the country. In October 2017, Venezuela held two votes: regional elections and elections for governors, which were long overdue. The opposition boycotted the vote, but then split, as some candidates and small parties chose to participate. This caused a deep rift within Maduro's opponents. The government went on to sweep the vote, which detractors say was unfair and heavily favored the regime. In November 2017, the oil-rich, cash-poor nation faced its day of reckoning. Credit ratings agencies declared Venezuela and its state-run oil company in "selective default." But Russia offered to restructure the South American country's debt to ensure Caracas pays its other creditors. US and EU sanctions, however, limited the chance of an agreement. The National Assembly announced in January 2018 that it would grant Maduro's call for snap presidential elections. The electoral authority, CNE, held the elections on May 20. The EU, the US and 14 Latin American nations warned that they would not recognize the results. The mainstream MUD opposition alliance boycotted the vote, leaving only one possible outcome. Maduro was re-elected to a second six-year term with about 68 percent of the vote. Turnout was only 46 percent, according to electoral authorities. However, the MUD opposition alliance put turn out at less than 30 percent. The Organization of American States (OAS) called the elections neither free nor fair. But weeks into the new year, the situation took a drastic turn. On January 23, 2019, parliament president Juan Guaido declared himself interim president of Venezuela — a move that was quickly recognized by US President Donald Trump. Maduro called it a US-backed "coup." Days later, the US sanctioned Venezuela's state oil firm, while Guaido staked his claim on the country's foreign assets.