German police said on Monday that witnesses, including a 19-year-old IT worker from Heilbronn, have been questioned as part of an investigation into a massive data breach affecting hundreds of German politicians. "Witness interrogations — among other things in Heilbronn — have been carried out," the Federal Criminal Police Office (BKA) said in a statement posted to Facebook. "The investigation is ongoing, which is why we cannot provide more information at this time." The BKA also said it had begun to inform those affected by the hack, which is estimated to be around 1,000 politicians and celebrities, including German Chancellor Angela Merkel and President Frank-Walter Steinmeier. According to reports from German broadcasters ARD and rbb, BKA officers on Sunday searched a teenagers living quarters and household garbage and confiscated technical equipment at his residence in Heilbronn. The young man, identified as Jan S., told the ARD show Kontraste that he had been questioned "for several hours" by police. He is being treated as a witness in the case. He says that he knows the hacker known as "Orbit," but that it is not him. Read more: German cyber defense body defends itself over massive breach On Friday, Germany's Federal Office for IT Safety (BSI) revealed it was investigating the leaking of data about several politicians published on Twitter. The data included mobile phone numbers, contact info, and credit card details. German Interior Minister Horst Seehofer was to meet with the BKA and the BSI later on Monday, not least to discuss contradictory information from the BSI on precisely when it became aware of the case, with an early warning in December mistakenly written off as a one-off. Send  Facebook   Twitter   google+   Whatsapp   Tumblr   linkedin   stumble   Digg   reddit   Newsvine Permalink https://p.dw.com/p/3B3iC Longtime correspondence The young man has also been sharing some information on the case on his own Twitter account, acknowledging that he had been in contact with the hacker responsible for the data theft. According to him, the hacker contacted him shortly after the hacked data was published online, announcing plans to destroy his computer. On Sunday evening, Jan S. posted a screenshot of an email from "0rbit," the presumed hacker, saying he was going to destroy his technical equipment. The 19-year-old went on to say that the hacker deleted his account with the Telegram messenger service, which the two had used for years to have encrypted conversations. The teenager had been suspected of being "0rbit" himself, a claim he has denied. dv/msh (AFP, dpa) Every evening at 1830 UTC, DW's editors send out a selection of the day's hard news and quality feature journalism. You can sign up to receive it directly here.