A plane with 98 people on board crashed on Friday morning in southeastern Kazakhstan. The Kazakh carrier Bek Air jet was heading to Nur-Sultan — formerly known as Astana — the nation's capital city. Carrying 93 passengers and five crew, the Fokker 100 took off from Almaty International Airport at 7:05 a.m local time (0105 UTC) and lost altitude shortly afterwards. At least 12 people died in the incident, including the pilot, and at least 54 people were hospitalized with injuries. Authorities said that 10 of the injured were in a critical condition. Read more: Kazakhstan rewrites its alphabet to shed its Soviet past Plane hit a building After the plane lost altitude, it broke through a concrete fence and hit a two-story building, Kazakhstan's Civil Aviation Committee said in a statement. Authorities were investigating whether the crash was caused by pilot error or a technical problem. Investigators found scratch marks on the runway. "Before crashing, the aircraft touched the runway with its tail twice, the gear was retracted," Deputy Prime Minister Roman Sklyar told reporters. "The aircraft split into two parts. Most of the passengers who died were in the front part," according to Skylar. No fire broke out on board and emergency services immediately began working at the site. Rescue workers could be seen reaching into the windows of the shattered cockpit, as scores of emergency staff gathered at the site. In addition to Kazakh nationals, citizens of China, Kyrgyzstan and Ukraine had also been on board. Read more: Kazakhstan will continue to 'tiptoe' around China 'Terrifying sound' heard One survivor told media she heard a "terrifying sound" before the plane started losing altitude. "The plane was flying with a tilt. Everything was like in a movie: screaming, shouting, people crying," she said. The plane from Almaty to Nur-Sultan, the country's capital, crashed shortly after taking off Another survivor, businessman Aslan Nazaraliyev, told the Vremya newspaper that the plane started shaking while gaining altitude about two minutes after takeoff. "At some point, we started falling, not vertically, but at an angle. It seemed like control over the plane had been lost," he said. Aviation expert Geoffrey Thomas told DW the report of shuddering could have been a sign of an ice build-up on the wings, while the large bang could be an indication of an engine failure. Authorities have assured reporters that the plane was de-iced before takeoff, however, survivor Nazaraliyev recalled that the wings of the plane were covered in ice, and passengers who used emergency exits over the wings were slipping and falling down. Thomas said many lives were saved by the fact that the fuel tank of the famously robust Fokker model did not rupture. He said the airline had no previous fatal incidents. The twin turbofan jet that crashed was 23 years old. A Germanwings Airbus A320 crashed into the French Alps on March 24, 2015 during a flight from Barcelona to Dusseldorf. All 144 passengers and six crew members were killed. A co-pilot with mental problems intentionally crashed the plane. Rebels in eastern Ukraine were accused of shooting down Malaysia Airlines flight MH17 on July 17, 2014 during a flight from Amsterdam to Kuala Lumpur. All 298 people on board died, 193 of them Dutch. A Dutch investigation found pro-Russian rebels shot the plane down with a Buk surface-to-air missile launched from separatist territory in eastern Ukraine. A Polish air force plane carrying President Lech Kaczynski crashed near the Russian airport of Smolensk on April 10, 2010. A Russian and Polish investigation found pilot error during landing in thick fog caused the crash that killed more than 90 people. Jaroslaw Kaczynski (pictured), the twin brother of Lech and leader of the ruling PiS, has suggested the crash was a political assassination. An Air France flight from Rio de Janeiro to Paris crashed in the Atlantic on June 1, 2009, killing all 228 people on board. It took nearly two years for the black box (pictured) to be recovered from the bottom of the ocean. The investigation found a combination of technical and pilot error caused the crash. A Spanair MD-82 plane crashed after take-off from Madrid airport on August 20, 2008, killing 154 people. Amazingly, 18 people survived the crash and subsequent fire. The crash was caused by an improper flap and slat configuration and a failure of the pilots to follow a pre-flight checklist. A Russian passenger plane operated by Pulkovo Aviation Enterprise crashed near the eastern Ukraine city of Donetsk on August 22, 2006, killing all 170 people aboard. The plane was flying from St. Petersburg to the Black Sea resort of Anapa. A Helios Airways flight from Cyprus crashed on August 14, 2005 near its destination Athens, killing all 121 on board. The crash was caused by a loss of cabin pressurization that immobilized the crew. The plane flew on autopilot until it ran out of fuel and crashed. On the night of July 1, 2002, a DHL cargo plane flying near the southern German town of Überlingen struck a Russian passenger jet carrying mostly schoolchildren to Barcelona, Spain. The two men aboard the DHL plane and all 69 passengers and crew on Bashkirian Airlines Flight 2937 perished. Swiss air traffic control firm Skyguide was found to be at fault for the tragedy. On October 8, 2001 a Scandinavian Airlines MD-87 airliner collided with a small Cessna on take-off from Milan's Linate Airport. All 114 people on the SAS and Cessna aircraft were killed, as were four people on the ground. The accident happened in thick fog. The SAS plane crashed into a hangar. On July 25, 2000 an Air France Concorde flight from Paris to New York crashed two minutes after take-off, killing 109 people on board and four people on the ground. The crash was caused by the Concorde running over a piece of debris on the runway, which sent tire debris into part of the fuel tank that burst into flames. Condolences Kazakh President Kassym-Jomart Tokayev shared his condolences to the victims and their families on Twitter, saying: "Those responsible will face tough punishment in accordance with the law." The government pledged to pay around $10,000 (€89,670) to the victims' families. The Kazakh aviation committee has said it is suspending all Fokker 100 jets pending an investigation. In March, a Bek Air Fokker-100 plane with 116 passengers made an emergency landing at the capital's international airport after its landing gear failed to deploy. None of the passengers or five-member crew were injured. dj, aw, mm, kmm/sms (AP, Reuters, AFP) Each evening at 1830 UTC, DW's editors send out a selection of the day's hard news and quality feature journalism. You can sign up to receive it directly here.