+++++Click here for the latest updates+++++ Latest score: Hoffenheim 2-1 Borussia Dortmund  (Götze 17', Adamyan 80'. Kramaric 87') Hoffenheim forward, Sargis Adamyan: "Dortmund are an incredible team with incredible players. At half-time we knew we had more in us and we were able to show that in the second half." Dortmund forward, Julian Brandt: "It's not going to killl us, but it's tough to accept. We played well and somehow let this game slip through our hands. When you lead 1-0 there's always an element of risk as you push to double your lead. We should have scored more and cut out the mistakes we made." FULL TIME VERDICT: Hoffenheim are in dreamland as they bolster their standing in the battle for European qualification, but the inquest will go long into the night for Dortmund. After gifting Leipzig two goals in midweek, they've gifted Hoffenheim all three points tonight. They've got more presents in their sleigh than Santa! 96' - The corner comes to nothing. The game is over as Hoffenheim clinch a come-from-behind 2-1 win. 95' - Bürki is up for the final corner! 93' - This is the first time Dortmund have let a lead slip since the Revierderby defeat to Schalke. 91' - Dortmund are throwing everything forward, but look spent. 90' - Five minutes of time have been added on at the end of the 90. 87' - GOAL! Hoffenheim 2-1 Dortmund (Kramaric) Adamyan flits in behind Dortmund's backline to whip in a cross which is met by Kramaric, who guides a fantastic aerial effort into the far corner. How have Dortmund let this one get away from them? Video Assist has conducted a check. The goal stands. 85' - Nico Schulz against his former club has flattered to deceive once again in Dortmund colors. The left-back bursts into the box, but slashes his effort well wide with his weaker right foot. 84' - Fun fact! Borussia dortmund's last seven Matchday 17 fixtures have all ended in a 2-1 scoreline, not always in BVB's favor. They have won the last three. 81' - Adamyan is proving to be a player for the big moments. The summer signing from Jahn Regensburg scored twice against Bayern on Matchday 7 and has now scored against Dortmund to potentially rescue a share of the spoils. 79' - GOAL! Hoffenheim 1-1 Dortmund (Adamyan) Hoffenheim's half-time substitute has done it! Dortmund were inviting pressure and the hosts have punished them for it. Locadia's initial effort was well blocked by Bürki, but when the ball squirmed loose to Adamyan he somehow found the angle to place the ball through the bodies in the box. SNAPSHOT FROM SINSHEIM There's still little to separate Hoffenheim and Dortmund as we enter the closing stages. 73' - As things stand Dortmund will close the gap on the top two of Leipzig and Gladbach to just a single point with both of those sides in action tomorrow. They are, however, guaranteed to be in the top four come Christmas if they hold onto three points. 70' - This hasn't the the barnstorming affair we've come to expect from games between Hoffenheim and Dortmund in recent seasons. For the most part, both have cancelled each other with misplaced passes littering the build-up. 68' - It's Dortmund's turn to start dropping deep and Hoffenheim, as they look to generate pressure, will have to be wary of Borussia breaking at pace. 63' - Hoffenheim aren't doing enough to make life difficult for Dortmund at the back or up front. They've had 58% possession since the break, but given how little pace their injecting into the game, Dortmund are reading the danger levels well. 60' - WHAT A CHALLENGE! Sancho weaves his way int he Hoffenheim and goes down in the box. Dortmund fans want a penalty, but replays show that Hübner's slide was perfectly timed as he got the ball cleanly before making contact with Sancho. A world class tackle. SNAPSHOT FROM SINSHEIM Sancho has only had a hand in two of Dortmund's 10 shots on goal. 55' - Hakimi bursts to the byline, but instead of getting his head up to pick out a teammate, drills a low delivery that evades everyone in the box. 54' - Hoffenheim have come from behind to win twice the season against Bremen and Köln. Tonight is a different challenge and we're not seeing much fight back from the hosts. 50' - CHANCE! Dortmund work it well in tight spaces as Sancho finds Brandt, who skips past the lunging legs to stings the palms of Baumann. 48' - Akanji can't believe it, and it does look a little harsh, but his coming together with Bebou has given Hoffenheim a free kick from the right, 10 yards or so from the right-hand side of the box. Geiger to send it, but it's cleared by Piszczek. SECOND HALF! We're back underway in Matchday 17's curtain raiser and both sides have made changes at the break. Adamyan is on in place of Samassekou for Hoffenheim, meanwhile Dortmund have brought on Piszczek and Brunn Larsen for Hummels and Hazard. Super Mario! HALF-TIME VERDICT It's a narrow lead, but having invested more into the game and posed a greater threat in the first half, Dortmund are deserving of being ahead at the break. Hoffenheim need to up the ante after the break if they want to take anything from this game, while BVB will be intent of avoiding a re-run of the horror start to the second half against Leipzig. Hard-fought first half: Dortmund have had eight shots to Hoffenheim's four through 45 minutes. 45' - Corner for Dortmund is taken short and whipped in by Hakimi. With the ball pinging around the box it eventually falls to Götze who tires to curl one into the far corner only to see his shot blocked behind for another corner which comes to nothing. 42' - The pace in proceedings is waning as we approach half-time. 38' - With Hoffenheim dropping deep and backing off, Hazard accepts the invitation to chance his arm from range as he forces Baumann to tip his effort behind for a corner. 35' - Brandt plays the ball around the corner for Hakimi to run onto in the Hoffenheim box. It's weighted well, but the Moroccan can't steer his effort past the onrushing Baumann. 34' - Ihlas Bebou has had just four touches of the ball so far. 33' - The difference maker... 30' - Hoffenheim have had four shots to Dortmund's three so far, but three of the hosts efforts have come from outside the box. BVB are snuffing out the danger well so far. 28' - Skov's stunning set piece was as close as Hoffenheim have come, but the hosts are struggling to assert themselves. Dortmund have had 57% possessions and won 55% of the challenges so far. 26' - WOODWORK! Hoffenheim go within a few inches of an equaliser as Robert Skov's free-kick from 30 yards dips and whips towards goal only to come crashing back off the bar with Roman Bürki rooted to the spot. SNAPSHOT FROM SINSHEIM Don't take your eyes off the ball! 22' - In his first start since Dortmund's loss in Der Klassiker, Mario Götze has made the desired impact. Tonight's opener is the first time he's scored on foreign soil in the Bundesliga a 4-0 win against Freiburg in April. His last four goals before tonight all came at the Signal Iduna Park. 20' - Sancho break the offside trap, but with the angles against him fails to test Baumann or find a teammate with a teasing delivery from the left. 17' - GOAL! Hoffenheim 0-1 Dortmund (Götze) A cheeky one-two with Hazard allows Hakimi to break in behind and, this time, he finds Götze, who turned the cross goalwards. Rudy did his best to prevent the effort crossing the line, but both his momentum and that of the ball worked against him as it trickles over the line. Dortmund lead! 16' - Hummels registers the first shot of the game as he gets on the end of Hazard's corner, but looks to have hurt his wrist. 15' - Quarter of an hour played and we're still waiting on the first shot on goal. 13' - Hoffenheim are holding their own and starting to have some promising spells of possession. The final ball is lacking though. 10' - Agonisingly close for Dortmund. Lovely play sets Achraf Hkimi away on the right wing. He only has Götze to aim for in the box, but provides a devilish delivery into the box which just needed a touch. Götze was unable to provide it though as the cross flashes across the face of goal and to safety. 8' - Mats Hummels makes an important interception at the back as the hosts look to break in behind. He's captaining Dortmund for only the second time this season - the last time he wore the armband BVB lost 4-0 to Bayern. 6' - Sebastian Rudy is starting at right-back for the first time in three years since a 1-1 draw with Darmstadt in September of 2016. 5' - Brilliant challenge from Benjamin Hübner to pick the ball of the toes of Thorgan Hazard as Dortmund break into the Hoffenheim box for the first time. Hoffenheim are keeping it at the back with a four-man backline - Hübner the only recognised defender amongst them. 3' - Both sides are feeling each other out in the opening exchanges as we wait in the first shot of the game. Dortmund are enjoying more of the ball, but for the most part the two teams are cancelling each other out. KICK OFF! We're underway in the opening game of Matchday 17, the final set of games before the Bundesliga goes into winter hibernation. Will Hoffenheim or Dortmund plunder more points? Shy in front of goal Hoffenheim have scored just 23 goals this season. They’ve only been worse off after 16 Bundesliga games on 3 occasions: 16 in 2011/12, 17 in 2015/16 and 22 in 2012/13. Super Sancho Jadon Sancho has recovered from a knock in time to feature from the off. The Englishman has scored in seven consecutive matches in all competitions for the first time in his professional career (8 goals, plus 5 assists). The last Dortmund player to go on such a scoring run within a single season was Pierre-Emerick Aubameyang from February to April 2017. Friday night lights Dortmund have lost just one of their last eight matches on a Friday evening (W4, D3): 2-1 away to Augsburg on MD24 of 2018/19. CONFIRMED TEAM NEWS: HOFFENHEIM Baumann - Nordtveit, Grillitsch, Hübner - Rudy, Geiger, Samassekou, Skov - Baumgartner - Kramaric, Bebou CONFIRMED TEAM NEWS: DORTMUND Bürki - Akanji, Hummels, Zagadou - Hakimi, Weigl, Brandt, Guerreiro - Sancho, Götze, Hazard. BVB singing from the same song sheet The interviews may be in German, but it's still worth checking out the Christmas celebrations witnessed in Dortmund.  Fun fact: Goals guaranteed? Hoffenheim have scored in all of their home games against Dortmund since winning promotion to the Bundesliga in 2008 (11 games) – their longest scoring streak in the BL against any side. Pre-match chatter: Alfred Schreuder "I was very happy for the boys [after the win over Union]. They really fought hard and deserved to win. Tomorrow we need to have courage and be stable in defence. Dortmund possess brutal quality and a lot of pace. My wishes for the rest of the season are for the squad to keep developing and for the team spirit to strengthen. That will make our future look bright." Pre-match chatter: Peter Bosz “Everyone makes mistakes. We have to accept the game against Leipzig and look ahead and think positively. We played very well, our mistakes just need to be corrected. Hoffenheim are very difficult to make heads or tails off. They were on a really good run of form in terms of their results, and then they ended up losing. They are capable of posing a real threat. We respect them - nothing more." What a glorious chirstmas jumper! Team news: Hoffenheim With no fresh injury concerns to contend with, head coach Alfred Schreuder is expected to switch to a three-man backline for the visit of Dortmund. Samassekou could make way for either Geiger or Adamyan to provide an more attacking pivot in behind the front two. Possible line-up: Baumann - Posch, Vogt, Hübner - Kaderabek, Grillitsch, Rudy, Skov - Samassekou - Bebou, Kramaric Team news: Dortmund Marco Reus (torn muscle fibres) was ruled out by BVB boss Lucien Favre, who also admitted that Jadon Sancho's inclusion against Hoffenheim was in doubt due to a thigh injury. As a result, Paco Alcacer and Mario Götze are vying for the lone striker's role. Possible line-up: Bürki - Akanji, Hummels, Zagadou - Hakimi, Weigl, Brandt, Guerreiro - Hazard, Götze, Sancho The curtain raiser Hello, and welcome to DW's live blog of the last Friday night game before the Bundesliga takes almost a month off. Lucky Bundesliga. Three league wins in a row before RB Leipzig's visit on Tuesday looked to have steadied the good ship BVB but a chaotic stint early in the second half meant Dortmund's excellent first half showing against the league leaders only earned them a point. That is exactly what the gap between RB and Dortmund will be if Lucien Favre's men pick up three points tonight, with Leipzig, Bayern Munich and Borussia Mönchengladbach all playing on Saturday. Hoffenheim had hit a worrying run of form of their own, with just one point from four, before an impressive 2-0 away win at Union Berlin on Tuesday. There'll be plenty of time to think on this one whichever way it goes. Jonas Hector's long-range deflected strike looked to be nothing more than a consolation goal for Cologne, but in the end it spurred the newly-promoted side on to come back from two goals down and score four goals in a row. The result lifts Cologne out of the relegation zone. Teenage talent Joshua Zirkzee scored the winner with his first touch in stoppage time on his debut to give Bayern a dramatic and perhaps undeserved win against Freiburg. The win keeps Bayern just four points back with one game left before the winter break. A goal seconds after the restart spurred the home side onto an unimpressive but important home win. Alassane Plea and a Lars Stindl penalty proved enough for Marco Rose's side, who are now level on points with RB Leipzig but sit second on goal difference. Markus Schubert had an impressive debut in goal for Schalke, but his error allowed Wolfsburg to grab an equalizer that the home side deserved. The point keeps Schalke just outside the top four. Jürgen Klinsmann got his second straight one-goal win in charge of the capital club. Defender Karim Rekik tucked in a rebound in a game that few attended or will feel they missed. The result lifts Hertha six points clear of the relegation zone. Florian Kohfeldt's job as Bremen coach took a turn for the worse on Tuesday night as the club slumped to another drubbing, this time at the hands of Mainz. Three goals in the first 20 minutes had the home side reeling and by halftime they trailed by four - the worst they have ever been down in the Bundesliga before. Robin Quaison bagged a hat trick for Mainz, who move six clear of the drop. The visitors sealed their first win in the league since early November in perhaps a surprise result against an Union team that have been tough to beat at home this season. Ihlas Bebou sent a rasping drive into the net from outside the box to put Hoffenheim on their way. After Sebastian Andersson was deined by Oliver Baumann, Christoph Baumgartner snuck in a second for Alfred Schreuder's side. Philipp Max continued his fine form, scoring two and assisting another, as Augsburg climbed into the top 10. The left back tucked home a rebound in the first half before sending in a corner, then Tin Jedvaj headed home after the hour mark. With the contest over, he got a second after Zach Steffen fumbled a long-range free kick. Fortuna's flunk continues as Augsburg finish the year strongly. In the most entertaining game of the season, BVB twice threw away a lead against an RB Leipzig side that were delighted to come away with a point. After a fantastic first half performance that saw Julian Weigl and Julian Brandt give BVB the lead, two inexplicable errors handed RB a way back into the game. Jadon Sancho put BVB back ahead, before sub Patrick Schick ensured the points were shared. Author: Jonathan Harding