Possible "drone attacks" have targeted three government-owned energy facilities in central Syria. The "terrorist" attacks caused damage to production at Homs oil refinery as well as two natural gas installations in different parts of the central Homs province, the SANA news agency reported Saturday, citing the oil ministry. Read more: US secures Syria oil fields after killing 'Islamic State' leader The ministry said that firefighters were trying to control the fire and were undertaking repair work at the facilities. The UK-based Syrian Observatory for Human Rights war monitor also confirmed Friday's attacks, saying they triggered explosions and fires in the facilities. No group has so far claimed responsibility. Send  Facebook   Twitter   google+   Whatsapp   Tumblr   linkedin   stumble   Digg   reddit   Newsvine Permalink https://p.dw.com/p/3Ry0V The city of Homs and the surrounding areas have been under control of the Syrian government since 2017, however rebels are active in some parts of the province near the border with Jordan. Read more: IS declares new leader after death of al-Baghdadi Energy shortage On Friday, "Islamic State" (IS) militants seized a gas field in rural Homs after launching an attack on Syrian government forces in the area. In June, sabotage attacks damaged five underwater pipelines off the Mediterranean coastal town of Banias in Tartous province. Syria is facing severe fuel shortages amid Western sanctions and the Kurdish-led fighters' control of most of the country's oil fields. Before the start of the Syrian conflict in 2011, the Middle Eastern country exported around half of the 350,000 barrels of oil it produced per day. Production now has plummeted to around 24,000 barrels a day, covering only a fraction of domestic needs. Read more: Is the Syria conflict an economic war? Civilians flee Idlib Meanwhile, tens of thousands of civilians have been displaced in recent weeks due to heavy airstrikes in the province of Idlib in northwestern Syria, the United Nations said on Friday. Up to 60,000 people have fled the region, news agency DPA reported citing a spokesperson with the UN humanitarian agency OCHA. The area, which is one of the last opposition strongholds in Syria, has been the target of intensified airstrikes carried out by the Syrian army and Russian forces. Syria has been engulfed in a devastating civil war since 2011 after Syrian President Bashar Assad lost control over large parts of the country to multiple revolutionary groups. The conflict has since drawn in foreign powers and brought misery and death to Syrians. Syria's army, officially known as the Syrian Arab Army (SAA), is loyal to Syrian President Bashar al-Assad and is fighting to restore the president's rule over the entire country. The SAA has been fighting alongside a number of pro-Assad militias such as the National Defense Force and has cooperated with military advisors from Russia and Iran, which back Assad. Turkey, which is also part of the US-led coalition against IS, has actively supported rebels opposed to Assad. It has a tense relationship with its American allies over US cooperation with Kurdish fighters, who Ankara says are linked to the Kurdistan Workers' Party (PKK) fighting in Turkey. Turkey has launched multiple military offensives targeting Kurdish militias. The Kremlin has proven to be a powerful friend to Assad. Russian air power and ground troops officially joined the fight in September 2015 after years of supplying the Syrian army. Moscow has come under fire from the international community for the high number of civilian casualties during its airstrikes. However, Russia's intervention turned the tide in war in favor of Assad. A US-led coalition of more than 50 countries, including Germany, began targeting IS and other terrorist targets with airstrikes in late 2014. The anti-IS coalition has dealt major setbacks to the militant group. The US has more than a thousand special forces in the country backing the Syrian Democratic Forces. The Free Syrian Army grew out of protests against the Assad regime that eventually turned violent. Along with other non-jihadist rebel groups, it seeks the ouster of President Assad and democratic elections. After suffering a number of defeats, many of its members defected to hardline militant groups. It garnered some support from the US and Turkey, but its strength has been greatly diminished. Fighting between Syrian Kurds and Islamists has become its own conflict. The US-led coalition against the "Islamic State" has backed the Syrian Democratic Forces, an alliance of Kurdish and Arab militias. The Kurdish YPG militia is the main component of the SDF. The Kurds have had a tacit understanding with Assad. "Islamic State" (IS) took advantage of regional chaos to capture vast swathes of territory in Iraq and Syria in 2014. Seeking to establish its own "caliphate," IS has become infamous for its fundamentalist brand of Islam and its mass atrocities. IS is on the brink of defeat after the US and Russia led separate military campaigns against the militant group. IS is not the only terrorist group that has ravaged Syria. A number of jihadist militant groups are fighting in the conflict, warring against various rebel factions and the Assad regime. One of the main jihadist factions is Hay'at Tahrir al-Sham, which controls most of Idlib province and has ties with al-Qaeda. Iran has supported Syria, its only Arab ally, for decades. Eager to maintain its ally, Tehran has provided Damascus with strategic assistance, military training and ground troops when the conflict emerged in 2011. The Iran-backed Lebanese Shiite militant group Hezbollah also supports the Assad regime, fighting alongside Iranian forces and paramilitary groups in the country. Author: Elizabeth Schumacher, Alexander Pearson shs/mm (dpa, AP) Each evening at 1830 UTC, DW's editors send out a selection of the day's hard news and quality feature journalism. You can sign up to receive it directly here.