UN Secretary-General Antonio Guterres on Tuesday urged governments to rise to the task of protecting refugees across the globe amid a growing number of people fleeing their homes for safety. "At this time of turbulence, the international community must do far more to shoulder this responsibility together," Guterres said at the start of the two-day Global Refugee Forum. "It is a moment to build a more equitable response to refugee crises through a sharing of responsibility." Read more: UN refugee compact receives a mixed scorecard a year on 'Reboot system' The forum is hoping to draw commitments from governments, businesses and organizations to take bold measures and bolster assistance for refugees. UN High Commissioner for Refugees Filippo Grandi called for a "reboot" of the current system, which has effectively kept the vast majority of refugees across the globe in poor and developing countries. "As a new decade dawns with some 71 million uprooted from their homes globally, inside and outside their countries, it's time to reboot our responses," Grandi said. Read more: Swedish town to integrate refugees by housing them with pensioners Refugees face enormous challenges fleeing their homes, seeking sanctuary and resettling 'Front-runner in refugee protection' For UNHCR's Martin Rentsch, Germany is one of the few developed countries to have taken bold steps in the right direction. "Over the last couple of years, Germany has been a front-runner in refugee protection, because it's one of the few countries that not only significantly finances humanitarian assistance in countries such as Lebanon, Turkey, Jordan, and other countries," said Rentsch. "But it also took in quite a significant amount of people, more than one million. So it can speak to both sides." More than 1 million irregular migrants entered the EU in 2015. Many of them were refugees fleeing war and extreme poverty in the Middle East, Asia and Africa. That year, nearly 900,000 refugees entered Germany to seek sanctuary under Chancellor Angela Merkel's open-door policy. But concerns remain, including Berlin's controversial policy to repatriate failed Afghan asylum-seekers to Afghanistan, where German troops remain deployed and attacks on civilians are a near-daily occurrence. Read more: Deported Afghans at risk of radicalization: study 'Whole society approach' Rentsch also emphasized that developing countries need more technical support in accommodating refugees. "More than 85 percent of refugees globally live in poor countries. Those countries need much more support ... The problem is about a lack of implementation ...." Rentsch also argued that countries should not be dependent on humanitarian organizations such as the UNHCR, saying that global forums which brings together leaders from around the world, including representatives from the private sector, would provide a more inclusive approach to assisting refugees in the resettlement process. " ... we are here at this forum to connect new players that have come to the table, such as the World Bank, or the private sector, to have a whole of society approach, and to not only rely on humanitarian players ..." Every evening, DW's editors send out a selection of the day's hard news and quality feature journalism. You can sign up to receive it directly here. In late 2014, with the war in Syria approaching its fourth year and Islamic State making gains in the north of the country, the exodus of Syrians intensified. At the same time, others were fleeing violence and poverty in countries such as Iraq, Afghanistan, Eritrea, Somalia, Niger and Kosovo. Vast numbers of Syrian refugees had been gathering in border-town camps in neighboring Turkey, Lebanon and Jordan since 2011. By 2015, with the camps full to bursting and residents often unable to find work or educate their children, more and more people decided to seek asylum further afield. In 2015 an estimated 1.5 million people made their way on foot from Greece towards western Europe via the "Balkan route". The Schengen Agreement, which allows passport-free travel within much of the EU, was called into question as refugees headed towards the wealthier European nations. Tens of thousands of refugees were also attempting the perilous journey across the Mediterranean on overcrowded boats. In April 2015, 800 people of various nationalities drowned when a boat traveling from Libya capsized off the Italian coast. This was to be just one of many similar tragedies - by the end of the year, nearly 4,000 refugees were reported to have died attempting the crossing. Countries along the EU's external border struggled to cope with the sheer number of arrivals. Fences were erected in Hungary, Slovenia, Macedonia and Austria. Asylum laws were tightened and several Schengen area countries introduced temporary border controls. Critics of German Chancellor Angela Merkel's "open-door" refugee policy claimed it had made the situation worse by encouraging more people to embark on the dangerous journey to Europe. By September 2016, Germany had also introduced temporary checks on its border with Austria. In early 2016, the EU and Turkey signed an agreement under which refugees arriving in Greece could be sent back to Turkey. The deal has been criticized by human rights groups and came under new strain following a vote by the European Parliament in November to freeze talks on Turkey's potential accession to the EU. With anti-immigration sentiment in Europe growing, governments are still struggling to reach a consensus on how to handle the continuing refugee crisis. Attempts to introduce quotas for the distribution of refugees among EU member states have largely failed. Conflicts in the Middle East and elsewhere show no signs coming to an end, and the death toll from refugee sea crossings is on the rise. Author: Rachel Stewart ls, mvb/ng (AFP, AP)