France was hit by a second day of severe disruption on Friday as nationwide strikes over proposed pension reforms continue. The industrial action followed the pattern of the previous day: DW's correspondent in Paris, Lisa Louis, said people "want to go back to work" in the morning on the second day of the strike. She reported over 300 kilometers (186 miles) of traffic jams on Friday morning on main roads in Paris, with people opting to take cars to work as the transport sector was "still at a standstill largely." She added that the strike "looked like it was having a huge impact." Commuter Bertim Zebly, outside the Gare de Lyon station in Paris, told dpa news agency that his return to work had "not gone well at all." Many workers hoped to return to work on Friday. Some commuters opted to hire bicycles and scooters and others took their cars. This led to large traffic jams in French cities. There were nearly 300 kilometers of traffic jams in the Paris region. 90% of high-speed trains and 70% of regional trains were cancelled on Friday, the French railway announced. The French civil aviation authority instructed airlines to reduce their Friday flight traffic from central airports to 20%. Public sector workers are unhappy about a reform that would see France transition to a points-based pension system from its current system that has 42 sector-specific pension schemes. Currently, rail workers, mariners and some ballet dancers can retire up to 10 years earlier than other workers. President Macron said that the proposed system would be fairer for everyone. Macron's proposals follow a long tradition of French government pension reform proposals stretching for three decades. Each reform has been met with massive demonstrations and none of the changes has succeeded in simplifying the pension system. Years of protests against pension reforms have successfully kept the retirement age low. In France, the pension age was raised to 62 years. This is among the lowest in OECD countries, despite being raised from 60 years in 2010 reforms. In Germany, retirement is at 67 years old. French union leaders are the driving force behind the nationwide strike — but they are not united. The CGT union is the most hardline. It rejects any pension reform proposals and said workers had blocked seven out of eight of the countries oil refineries. The CFDT union is more moderate and is open to the idea of a points-based system. While the majority of protesting consisted of peaceful marches, masked protesters also vandalized bus stops, smashed shop windows, and threw fireworks at police as demonstrators progressed through Paris on Thursday. The so-called Yellow Vests are known for their direct approach to protesting and have said they would join the strikes. Authorities are bracing themselves for possible violence. The yellow-vest movement has swelled into anti-government and anti-inequality protests. Many see the general strike in France as protecting the country's social safety net — not just about preserving pensions. After peaceful protesting escalated to include rioting and damage to public and private property, security forces also intensified their tactics. Riot police charged crowds and fired tear gas to disperse violent demonstrators. Police clashed with protesters on Thursday in Nantes, Montpellier, Paris as well as other cities. Masked demonstrators started fires, smashed storefronts, and vandalized cars. Author: Kate Martyr How long will the strike last? French unions called for a further intergenerational strike on Tuesday, after Thursday's general strike that saw a large turnout and drew comparisons with the 1995 national strikes that paralyzed the country over welfare reforms. "Everybody in the street on Tuesday, December 10, for a new day... of strikes, actions and protests," said Catherine Perret, senior member of the hardline CGT union, the nation's biggest public sector union. The government has been negotiating with unions and other organizations for months over the pension plans but the details will only be released next week. Unions are calling for open-ended strikes in order to keep the pressure up during negotiations. President Emmanuel Macron made no official comment, with his Twitter account featuring videos from his recent NATO appearance. Later on Friday, Macron's Prime Minister Edouard Philippe said that the government would hold fast to its reform plans, extensive details of which will be presented on Wednesday. "France will have to work a little longer," he said. Riot police aimed non-lethal rubber bullets at protesters after strikes turned violent What happened on day 1? The first day of strikes brought the country to a standstill and descended into clashes between riot police and demonstrators. French police said that more than 65,000 people took to the streets in Paris. Outside of the capital, around half a million people came out to protest, according to an official tally. What are Macron's pension reforms? Macron plans to reform France's pension system, calling it unfair and costly. He wants to introduce a single, points-based system that he said will guarantee equal rights to every pensioner. Macron also wants to implement a "universal" retirement system, which was one of his major campaign promises. But labor unions say the proposed reforms would effectively require millions of private-sector workers to work beyond the legal retirement age of 62 in order to receive the full pension. Many people striking also see the reforms as the government stripping away the country's social safety net and liberalizing the pensions and labor market. The strike follows a year after the infamous Yellow Vest movement began protesting inequality in the country. Every evening at 1830 UTC, DW's editors send out a selection of the day's hard news and quality feature journalism. Sign up to receive it directly here.