Pakistani police on Saturday raided the house of Prime Minister Imran Khan's nephew, Hassan Niazi, after video footage showed him taking part in a violent lawyers' protest on Wednesday. "The Prime Minister of Pakistan's nephew's house and other premises, such as farmhouse and business places were raided," Fayyaz ul Hassan Chohan, the information minister of Punjab province, told reporters on Saturday. "He will be arrested at any cost... all are equal in the eye of the law," the minister, who belongs to Khan's Pakistan Tehreek-e-Insaf (PTI) party, added. Police officials said that Niazi was not present in his house at the time of the raid. Read more: Huge rallies kick off in Pakistan to oust PM Imran Khan Deteriorating security situation Videos showing Niazi, a lawyer, participating in the Wednesday lawyers' rally, went viral on social media. Three patients died after some 200 lawyers stormed the Punjab Heart Institute hospital in the eastern Lahore city, vandalizing property and setting on fire a police van after a dispute with doctors. Read more: Opinion: Imran Khan — one year of stumbling ineptitude Niazi, who admitted his involvement in the violent protest, initially expressed support for the rally but later distanced himself from the violent attack. "My support and protest was limited to initiation of legal action against the concerned doctors. I only stand for peaceful protests. It's a sad day and I condemn my own self for supporting this protest now," he tweeted. Police have arrested around 80 lawyers and PM Khan – who has not commented on his nephew – has ordered an inquiry into the riot. Opposition parties accuse the prime minister of protecting his nephew, a claim denied by government officials. Human rights groups have criticized the lawyers' violent attack on a hospital and raised concerns about the deteriorating security situation in the country. Read more: Prince William, Kate visiting Pakistan to boost ties Imran Khan was born in Lahore in 1952, the son of a civil engineer. Khan grew up with his four sisters in a relatively affluent part of the city. He received a privileged education, first in his hometown and then in Worcester, England. It was there that Khan's love and talent for the game of cricket became evident. In 1972, he enrolled at Oxford University to study politics and economics. Khan played cricket throughout his time in England and after returning to his native Pakistan in 1976, he quickly became a regular in the national team. By 1982, he was awarded the captain's armband. Khan enjoyed an illustrious career and was regarded by many as one of the best all-rounders in the world. The ultimate high point of Khan's sporting career saw him captain Pakistan to the 1992 Cricket World Cup in Melbourne, Australia. As if his popularity couldn't get any bigger back home, Khan even took the winning wicket in the final against England. Khan enjoyed hedonistic bachelor life and was a regular fixture on London's nightlife scene. However, in 1995, at age 42, he finally tied the knot to 21-year-old Jemima Goldsmith. During their nine-year marriage, the famous couple provided plenty of fodder for the British and Pakistani tabloids. Despite separating in 2004, Goldsmith has remained a vocal supporter of Khan's politics. Khan wasted little time after retiring from cricket in 1994. Just two years later he entered Pakistani politics and founded the Pakistan Tehreek-e-Insaf (PTI) party. However, his popularity was slow to carry over from cricket into politics. In the 1997 general elections, his PTI party failed to win a single seat. Khan remained active in politics over the next decades. In 1999, he supported General Pervez Musharraf's military coup, only to later turn against Musharraf ahead of the 2007 presidential election. Khan was subsequently placed under house arrest and even spent a few days in prison. However, his supporter base continued to grow, and by 2013 he became a key candidate in the general elections. The PTI made substantial gains in the 2013 election, claiming 30 parliamentary seats and finishing second behind the Pakistan Muslim League. The party became the main opposition in the key provinces of Punjab and Sindh. However, its greatest feat was winning its first province in Khyber Pakhtunkhwa. Khan has often been the butt of jokes for his pacifist stance towards terrorism in the region. He earned the moniker "Taliban Khan" for claiming that the only way to achieve peace with the Taliban in neighboring Afghanistan was through negotiation. Khan was also a vocal critic of US drones strikes on Pakistan and has promised to disengage Pakistan from America's conflicts in the Middle East. Since his divorce from Goldsmith in 2004, Khan has remarried twice. In January 2015, Khan announced his marriage to British-Pakistani journalist Reham Khanm although just 10 months later the couple said they were filing for divorce. In February 2018, Khan married his third wife, Bushra Manika (pictured front row, second from the left), whom he describes as his spiritual adviser. By 2018, Khan's PTI were among the favorites going into the general election. Campaigning on a populist platform, Khan pledged to break away from Pakistan's corrupt legacy. His plans include a poverty reduction program similar to that seen in China. This would see the establishment of an "Islamic welfare state," the creation of 10 million jobs and construction of 5 million homes for the poor. Khan completed his journey from all-star cricketer to political leader on July 26, 2018. With most votes counted, the PTI is expected win up to 119 seats in Pakistan's 272-seat parliament. "I started this struggle 22 years ago and today I have been given a chance to fulfill what I dreamed for the country," Khan said in a televised speech. "We will run Pakistan like it's never been run before." Author: David Martin Every evening, DW's editors send out a selection of the day's hard news and quality feature journalism. You can sign up to receive it directly here.