Police in southern Germany on Sunday arrested suspects in the murder of a 49-year-old firefighter, whose death has shaken Bavaria. The firefighter was with his wife and another couple when they were attacked by a group of seven young men on Friday night after leaving a Christmas market in the city of Augsburg. Read more: Germany's top court upholds murderer's right to be forgotten Police reported the victim was fatally struck on the head following a dispute with the group that also left the firefighter's male friend badly injured. Both women were unharmed. Bavarian authorities said Sunday two suspects had been arrested following an investigation and a large-scale manhunt. Do you want to walk around the Christkindlmarkt? Why not try another way: On a 3,000 square meter (32,291 square feet) ice rink, visitors glide through the park, past light installations and sales stands. The first Christmas market ever was mentioned in 1296, it was the so-called December market in Vienna. A mighty Christmas tree with thousands of lights makes the Christmas market at the old town square impressive. Czech cuisine and arts and crafts are very much in demand here. The small stalls sell hearty dumplings, glass ornaments and wooden toys. The Strasbourg Christmas market is spread over 12 locations in the town center. So the city justifiably calls itself the "Christmas Capital". The Strasbourg Christmas market was first mentioned in 1570, making it the oldest in France. The people of Strasbourg also took their tradition to Moscow: they opened the first Christmas market in the Russian capital in 2012. The success was so great that today there are several markets in the city center. Five million lights sparkle in Sweden's largest Christmas market, located in Gothenburg, in the Liseberg amusement park. Scandinavian handicrafts and design, as well as Swedish specialties, are sold here. Polkagris, for example, are red and white peppermint sticks. And of course, Glögg, mulled wine refined with almonds and raisins. The Vrijthof is situated in the heart of the medieval old town of Maastricht. The square provides the perfect backdrop for the Maastricht Christmas market. Attractions are the Ferris wheel, the artificial ice rink and a walk-in Christmas bauble. After a refreshment of hot cocoa and Limburg waffles, the surrounding alleys await you on a Christmas stroll. The attractions at the Winter Wonderland in London's Hyde Park include snow and ice sculptures that take you on a journey back in time to 19th century London and depict "A Christmas Carol" by Charles Dickens. There are also ice-skating shows, circus performances and lots of merry-go-rounds and rides. German grilled sausages, Belgian waffles, French crêpes — all this is available at the European Market on Princes Street in the heart of Edinburgh. The stalls, light installations and merry-go-rounds not only stretch along the street, but also down into the park. The Croatian capital is transformed into a Christmas wonderland that stretches across several squares in the city center. At the Advent market in Zrinjevac Park, the stalls line up along an avenue of 220 illuminated plane trees. The hustle and bustle of the market traditionally begins on the first of Advent with the placing of a huge Advent wreath on Zagreb's main square. The Christmas market at the Gendarmenmarkt is one of the most atmospheric in Berlin. Embedded in the historical backdrop of the Schauspielhaus Theater, and the German and French Cathedrals, craftsmen and artists offer their wares in the white marquees. There are no rides, but there is a daily stage program that creates a romantic Christmas atmosphere. Author: Lisa Marie Jordan Police identified the prime suspect as a 17-year-old resident of Augsburg with "multiple nationalities." The second arrest was of 17-year-old born in Augsburg with a southern European nationality. They were working to identify other members of the group using video footage from the scene. On Sunday, more than 100 firefighters in the city gathered at the site of the crime to honor their colleague. Echoing similar feelings across Bavaria, Interior Minister Horst Seehofer expressed anger and disbelief that the firefighter was killed. "What has really upset me is that a peaceable citizen was killed in Augsburg, simply beaten to death," Seehofer said in a television interview on Sunday. Send  Facebook   Twitter   google+   Whatsapp   Tumblr   linkedin   stumble   Digg   reddit   Newsvine Permalink https://p.dw.com/p/3OY9g cw/rc (AFP, dpa) Every evening, DW sends out a selection of the day's news and features. Sign up here.