The shock success story of the opening rounds of the world darts championship came to an end in the third round on Friday at the Alexandra Palace in London. The world number 4 in the women's game, Fallon Sherrock, qualified for the men's championship, and then proceeded to beat Ted Evetts in the opening round and men's world number 11 Mensur Sulijovic in the second round. But against 22nd seed and fellow English national Chris Dobey, Sherrock fell short. Dobey won the match by 4 sets to 2, ultimately winning the decisive last two sets quite comfortably after an evenly matched start to the game. Sherrock's impressive accuracy throwing doubles at the end of legs kept her in contention for most of the game despite Dobey outscoring her consistently. But the world number 24 really hit his stride late in the match. "This girl can play, and I needed to be at my best," Dobey told UK broadcaster Sky Sports after the game, adding that he could scarcely believe Sherrock was holding her own in the first four legs even though he was outscoring her consistently. "She's been absolutely outstanding, also today." Dobey's relentless scoring put Sherrock on the back foot, and once he started closing legs reliably, he pulled clear The pair posed together after the game, with Dobey encouraging the crowd to show some appreciation for the sensation of the opening rounds at the "Ally Pally." When it was Sherrock's turn to answer questions on stage, she couldn't hear the interviewer over the notoriously rowdy darts crowd. "I tell you what: I've actually enjoyed myself so much. And honestly, Chris just played so well. Unfortunately it wasn't my result, but I can't take anything away from him, he played so well," Sherrock said. "Thank you to everyone, it's been amazing. Hopefully I can experience it again, because it's been unbelievable." Darts is one of the comparatively few sports — also including snooker, motor sports, golf and equestrian events — which has no explicit restrictions on gender, with women welcome to compete against men. However, in the majority of these sports, men have continued to dominate to such an extent that separate women's competitions have been established to give female players a chance to shine. Sherrock became the first woman to win a match at the PDC World Championships, the biggest competition of the year. Two of her key rivals in the women's game, Lisa Ashton and Anastasia Dobromyslova, made the cut last year, but both were eliminated in the first round.  Sherrock received a hero's welcome on entry at the Alexandra Palace on Friday Sherrock also said she hoped to make the cut for next year's PDC World Championships, although first she would turn her attention to the 2020 BDO women's world championships in London in January. She was already one of the favorites for that crown, going into the competition as fourth seed, even before her December heroics. After Shelley-Ann Fraser-Pryce won the 100-meter sprint at the Athletics World Championships in Doha, she celebrated her victory with son Zyon. "It was a long journey," the Jamaican sprinter said of the time it took for her to get back into shape – not only physically but also mentally. Allyson Felix won a record 12th world title and her first since becoming a mother last November, as part of the US team that took the 4x400 meters mixed relay in Doha. After she became pregnant, the six-time Olympic champion got into a dispute with her then-sponsor Nike, which had offered her a 70-percent pay cut as she was forced to take a break from the sport. Felix now has a different sponsor. According to her own account, the birth by C-section of daughter Alexis Olympia on September 1, 2017, almost cost the then 36-year-old her life. Since returning to the tennis court following a 13-month break, Williams has reached four Grand Slam finals but hasn’t won any of them. Margaret Court had a much easier time of it. The 24-time Grand Slam winner, whose record Serena Williams continues to chase, had three children during her playing career, only retiring from the game after she'd become pregnant four a fourth time. In June 2015 Marit Björgen announced that she was pregnant and would sit out the following World Cup season – with the goal of returning for the 2017 Nordic World Ski Championships in Lahti. After the birth of her son Marius, the Norwegian record world champion went on to win four titles at the 2017 Worlds and a year later she followed this up with two Olympic gold medals in Pyeongchang. When the Swedish swimmer put her career on hold due to pregnancy in 2013 she had already won numerous World and European Championship titles, plus three Olympic medals – none of which was gold. Alshammar hasn’t been at the top level since returning to the pool, but she did take part in her sixth Olympic Games in Rio in 2016, when she was Sweden's flag-bearer. Only four months after the birth of her daughter, the star biathlete won the silver medal at the World Championships. The Belarusian followed this success up with several World Cup victories, Olympic silver in the pursuit in 2018 and relay gold. In 2018, Domracheva called time on her career. She now coaches China’s national biathlon team long with her husband Ole Einar Björndalen (pictured). US cyclist Kristin Armstrong’s son Lucas looks about as happy as his mother after she won Olympic gold in the time trial at the 2012 Games in London. In doing so, she defended the title she had won in Beijing four years earlier. In Rio in 2016, she made it three consecutive Olympic gold medals in the race against the clock. Isabell Werth gave birth to son Frederick 10 years ago and now he can say that his mother is the most successful dressage rider in the world, having won six Olympic gold medals, four Olympic silver medals, nine World Championship titles and 20 European championship titles. That’s not to mention several national titles. By the time her son Toni was born in 1989, Heike Drechsler had already won gold medals for East Germany in the long jump at both the World and European Championships. She’d also won gold in the 200 meters at the European Championships. After giving birth, she won Olympic gold for Germany in the long jump in Barcelona in 1992 and Sydney eight years later. Soon successful tennis mother Kim Clijsters will be back on the WTA tour. The Belgian knows a thing or two about comebacks: In 2007 she retired at the age of 23. In 2009 she gave birth to a daughter before resuming her career and winning three Grand Slam tournaments. She retired for a second time in 2012. Now a mother of three, she has announced another comeback for 2020. Author: Andreas Sten-Ziemons Each evening at 1830 UTC, DW's editors send out a selection of the day's hard news and quality feature journalism. You can sign up to receive it directly here.