With Borussia Mönchengladbach topping the Bundesliga, Bayern Munich mired in transition, Union Berlin surprising everyone and Borussia Dortmund as unpredictable as ever, there's no shortage of stories in German football this season. In all the excitement however, one team has slipped under the radar somewhat. After a run of eight wins from their last 11 games in all competitions (combined score: 38-14), RB Leipzig find themselves just one point behind Gladbach and have already qualified for the knockout stages of the Champions League for the first time in the club's short history. A 2-2 draw away at Lyon on Tuesday night secured RB progress from Group G as group winners and put them in a strong position as they advance into unchartered territory – both for the club and for new head coach Julian Nagelsmann. RB's only previous foray into the Champions League – in 2017-18, after finishing second in their first ever Bundesliga season, ended in the group stage while Nagelsmann's experience at Europe's top table is also limited to last season's group stage exit with Hoffenheim, plus a qualifying-round defeat to Liverpool the year before. Viewed through that simple prism, its not the most flattering of records for a club with the lofty ambitions of RB Leipzig, nor for a coach frequently dubbed a wunderkind and the next big thing in German football. Both, however, have faced similar hurdles in their short European careers, and so it's fitting that they are now developing and progressing together. Ralf Rangnick has shaped the development of both RB Leipzig and Julian Nagelsmann The Rangnick school The rise to prominence of both RB Leipzig and Nagelsmann is intertwined with that of Ralf Rangnick, the football "professor” whose philosophy has influenced German football significantly in the last decade. High pressing, spatial overloads and rapid transitions might be familiar concepts to football fans nowadays but Rangnick was explaining them on German television as early as 1998. As Rangnick was masterminding Hoffenheim's rise from division three to the Bundesliga between 2006 and 2011 (over €350m ($387m) of backing from SAP owner Dietmar Hopp also helped), Nagelsmann was cutting his teeth coaching the club's under-17s, soaking up the professor's teachings. Following Rangnick's departure, he was promoted to the under-19s and then to first team coach, where he first saved Hoffenheim from relegation and then led them into Europe for the first time. Rangnick, meanwhile, became sporting director for Red Bull's football franchises in both Salzburg and Leipzig, his philosophy quickly influencing the football played by teams in both locations and across all age groups. That style of play saw RB Leipzig take the Bundesliga by storm in 2016-17 and has seen them establish themselves as one of Germany's top sides. Again, substantial investment from the Austrian energy drink manufacturer has also helped, as have a number of controversial transfers and the club's circumvention of German football's 50+1 ownership rule. Julian Nagelsmann is trying to tweak's RB Leipzig's style slightly Tactical tweaks But the footballing successes of both Hoffenheim and RB Leipzig don't just share similarities; they come with similar drawbacks, too. While deadly effective and pleasing on the eye, Rangnick-ball also demands a high degree of tactical discipline and significant physical exertion. The former requires detailed training sessions – aided by Nagelsmann's use of huge pitchside TV screens in Hoffenheim – and the latter longer recovery times. Both are harder to come by when competing on multiple fronts, twice a week and with long journeys in between, which goes some way to explaining both teams' struggles in their fledging European stories so far. Former RB Leipzig coach Ralph Hasenhüttl was aware of that but his attempts to implement more possession-based elements in his second season at the club didn't find favor with Rangnick. Two years later however, with Rangnick now "Head of Sport and Development Soccer” at Red Bull's Fuschl-am-See headquarters in the Austrian Alps, and that is precisely what Nagelsmann, 32, is tasked with doing. "Leipzig's philosophy was based heavily on pressing, winning the ball and counter-attacking,” Nagelsmann told broadcaster Sky ahead of Tuesday's trip to France. "We're still focusing on that but we're now also creating a lot of chances from our own spells of possession.” It's a slight tactical tweak which doesn't just conserve players' energy; it also makes RB less predictable. And it's certainly serving them well in the Bundesliga this season. "We place great importance on the lads knowing which areas of the pitch we should be playing balls into and against which teams,” Nagelsmann added. "There is always a detailed plan and then it's up to the players to want to implement it, to listen and to improve.” Both RB Leipzig and Julian Nagelsmann have benefitted hugely from the influence of Ralf Rangnick in their development up until this point. But the very nature of their football has arguably held them back in Europe. With an ingrained willingness to listen, improve and implement, this could be the season in which that changes for both parties. A fourth consecutive home win without conceding a goal has Union Berlin looking up the table as they stretched the gap to their opponents, in the last relegation place, to 11 points. These two met in the 2. Bundesliga last season but the hosts looked a class above. Top scorer Sebastian Andersson powered in a first half header before rolling in a finish after the break. Cologne haven't won in six. The visitors stole three points after some very late drama. Bremen had edged the game in terms of chances but looked to be heading towards two points dropped when Sven Michel diverted home a ball deflected off teammate Streli Mamba. Referee Sascha Stegemann said offside, but the VAR spotted Gebre Selassie keeping Michel onside and Paderborn had their second win of the season. Playing all in black in a special "steel and coal" jersey dedicated to the city's mining heritage, Lucien Favre's Dortmund dug deep to deliver precisely the performance they needed. Fortuna Düsseldorf made life rather easy for them though, sitting deep all game, and eventually capitulating as the second half turned into a rout. Jadon Sancho scored twice, set one up, and had another disallowed. The league leaders stay top of the table, and consign Bayern Munich to seventh place in the Bundesliga. Left back Ramy Bensebaini scored both of Gladbach's goals, the winner being a late penalty. Bayern had more of the ball and probably the better of the chances, but maybe the writing was on the wall when Robert Lewandowski couldn't find the target for a third weekend in the Bundesliga. Julian Nagelsmann got the better of his old club, retaining second spot in the table. Until Gladbach's late winner, they were set to take the lead outright. Timo Werner's exceptional scoring run endures, as he netted twice to reach 15 in 14 Bundesliga games this season. He's laid on another five for good measure. Lucas Alario scored both of Leverkusen's goals as the Werkself extended their impressive run of form to three wins and a draw in their last four in the Bundesliga. They move up to sixth in the process, also drawing level on points with Schalke. The Royal Blues netted late to keep their hosts honest, but couldn't snatch a point. When you play Freiburg, try never to foul. For a second consecutive week, Jonathan Schmid scored a peachy free kick with his cultured right boot. This time, though, the Strasbourg sharpshooter's efforts secured three points for his team. Freiburg now have an impressive 25 points. Almost out of the relegation fight, months ahead of schedule, when do they graduate into genuine European hopefuls? Mainz took the early lead in the north of Bavaria, only for Augsburg to draw level before the break. Marco Richter missed an open goal before later converting from close range. In the second period, Florian Niederlechner converted a penalty won by Ruben Vargas to bag the points for the hosts. Augsburg leapfrog Mainz in the table in the process and now have 17 points to Mainz's 15. Jürgen Klinsmann looked set for a first win after his big move to the German capital when Hertha took a 2-0 lead against the hosts only to cede it in the last half hour. Frankfurt may feel hard done by too, given a disallowed goal and several late chances to pinch all three points. Hertha and Klinsi have a tough December in store with games against Freiburg, Leverkusen and Gladach. Author: Mark Hallam