Finland's Prime Minister Antti Rinne is stepping down and will tender his government's resignation, President Sauli Niinisto's office said on Tuesday. The Finnish Center Party, part of the Baltic country's five-party ruling coalition, had lost confidence in Rinne, who had come under pressure over the government's handling of a two-week postal strike. Read more: Opinion: Finland election a sign of things to come for EU Rinne's resignation Losing confidence Speaking to reporters on Monday, Rinne said losing the backing of Finland's Center Party led to his decision to resign. "All of the governing parties have confidence in me, except the Center Party. When I was told they no longer have confidence in me, I made the decision to resign," Rinne said. He added that the coalition is committed to keeping the administration. "If (my) being prime minister jeopardizes the government program, it is better that I steer clear of it," Rinne said. Niinisto thanked Rinne for "the short, but many moments of good cooperation." Postal service controversy: Rinne has faced heavy criticism in recent weeks over how he and a fellow party member dealt with a two-week strike in November involving workers of Finland's state-owned postal service. The strike also spread to the national airline, Finnair, and other industries before the dispute was settled last week. Forced out: Earlier Tuesday, Finland's Center Party said it had lost confidence in Rinne. The move was directed at the prime minister, not at the Social Democrats. "Losing confidence" is not a formal procedure in Finland, like a vote of no-confidence one sees in other parliamentary-governed nations. Read more: Finland: Euroskeptics vs. the flying squirrel Send  Facebook   Twitter   google+   Whatsapp   Tumblr   linkedin   stumble   Digg   reddit   Newsvine Permalink https://p.dw.com/p/3QA5Y EU ramifications: The political crisis in Finland comes at an awkward time for the European Union. Finland, which holds the bloc's rotating presidency until the end of the year, has a central role in establishing a new EU budget. What happens next: The Center Party is unlikely to push for new elections and has expressed its desire to remain in the coalition government. Instead, the Finnish parliament is expected to choose a new prime minister next week. Sanna Marin, a member of Rinne's Social Democrats and Finland's transport and communications minister, is seen as a frontrunner to replace the prime minister. Send  Facebook   Twitter   google+   Whatsapp   Tumblr   linkedin   stumble   Digg   reddit   Newsvine Permalink https://p.dw.com/p/3LGhw dv/ng (AP, dpa, Reuters) DW sends out a daily selection of hard news and quality feature journalism. Sign up here.