A raccoon indulged in too much mulled wine at a Christmas market in central Germany on Saturday, amusing onlookers as the furry animal staggered about before passing out. Read more: The history of German Christmas markets The raccoon was "obviously intoxicated," a police spokesperson from the city of Erfurt said. "However, a breathalyzer test on the animal was not carried out," police said. Apparently, the unsuspecting raccoon had sipped mulled wine left over from glasses, the mass daily Bild reported. In addition to the popular Christkindlmarkt in front of the Vienna City Hall, visitors flock to the Altwiener Christkindlmarkt on the historic market square in front of the Schottenkirche. At 46 metres, there is the longest nativity scene in Austria and particularly high-quality handicrafts. The market was founded in 1987 with the idea of countering the commercialisation of the Christmas markets. The Christmas market traditionally begins on the first Advent with the installation of the gigantic Advent wreath around the Mandusevac Fountain on the central square. From this moment on, the Christmas magic of lights lies over Zagreb. Events all over the city invite you to feast and marvel. Kraków's Christmas market is located in the middle of the old city. Those who are not warmed by the romantic setting might find a bit of Polish vodka helpful. The main attraction is an annual competition for the best model nativity scene. The contest has been held on the first Thursday in December since 1937. The "Christkindelsmärik," as the Christmas market is called in Strasbourg, has existed since 1570, making it the oldest Christmas market in France. It's made special by the typical wooden market stalls, not just located around Strasbourg Cathedral, but all around the old city center, each has its own specialty. The medieval town in Alsace is romantic all year round. During the Christmas season it becomes almost magical. The Place Jeanne d'Arc offers Alsatian specialities. In the Koifhus (old customs house) and on the squares Place des Dominicains and Place de l'Ancienne Douane, traders offer handicrafts. For children, there is a mechanical crib and a merry-go-round with wooden horses. The Basel Christmas market at Barfüsserplatz is the largest in Switzerland and considered to be one of the prettiest, with the longest festively lit road in Europe. Some 180 market stalls are packed together on this road. Here you can find anything your heart desires, from wooden toys to vegan products and Indian handicrafts. Madrid holds its Christmas market on the Plaza Mayor. The height of the festive season in Spain is January 6th. That is when the "King's parade" is held. It is these three kings, also known as the three wise men, who bring gifts at Christmas in Spain. Every year thousands of tourists come to join the street festivities. The parade is broadcast live on television. German Christmas has been exported and the "Winter Wonderland" in London's Hyde Park is the best proof of it. Based on the German model, this Christmas market has a "Bayern Rutschi" fairground ride and "German Bratwurst" sausages. A Ferris wheel, rollercoaster and ice rink complete the Christmas show. Also popular is the "Magical Ice Kingdom" ice sculpture display. The "Jul pa Liseberg" Christmas market in Gothenburg is the largest in Sweden. In this magical place 5 million Christmas lights spread festive joy. Everything is on offer, from Swedish specialties to music and theater performances as well as rides on a reindeer drawn sleigh. As this is the location of a theme park in the summer, they are well equipped to make the market a pleasurable experience. Every year some 4 million people visit the Christmas market by the Cologne Cathedral. It is regarded as one of Germany's most popular markets. Both the market stalls and the over 100 stage performances help to spread festive cheer. Cologne's diversity also includes the "Heavenue", a gay and lesbian Christmas market on Rudolfplatz. The Christkindlesmarkt, which could be literally translated as "Christ Child Market," in Nuremberg is opened with a prologue by the Christkind every year. This is one of the world's oldest Christmas markets as it was mentioned in official documents as far back as 1628. Christmas decorations are on offer here as well as the typical local Christmas specialty "Nürnberger Lebkuchen" ginger bread. Author: Andreas Kirchhoff Video of the spectacle showed the raccoon wandering around, playing with a woman's shoes and then taking a rest on some steps in front of a building. Read more: Germany: 'Highly aggressive cow' sparks lengthy police chase in Bavaria The inebriated raccoon was later taken to an animal shelter by the fire department. A similar case made headlines in the summer of 2018 when police officers picked up two tipsy hedgehogs near Erfurt's cathedral, where they had come across discarded bottles of alcohol-infused eggnog. The animals were then taken care of by the zoo. Send  Facebook   Twitter   google+   Whatsapp   Tumblr   linkedin   stumble   Digg   reddit   Newsvine Permalink https://p.dw.com/p/3U8OC Every evening, DW sends out a selection of the day's news and features. Sign up here.