Germany's Federal Environment Agency has urged the government to introduce speed restrictions on the country's famously limit-free highways. The idea is included in a package of measures put forward to reduce carbon emissions from private vehicles on German roads. Read more: Everything you need to know about the German autobahn Germany's Süddeutsche Zeitung on Thursday cited an internal document from the agency that urges drastic action to meet the country's climate targets. Among the proposals is the introduction of a maximum speed limit of 120 kilometers per hour (75 miles per hour) for vehicles on all German highways. Such restrictions would likely spark huge controversy. At present, there are no official speed limits on certain stretches of road and drivers regularly hurtle along at speeds of more than 200 kph. 'Ambitious but feasible' The unpublished policy paper also envisages a steep rise in tax on diesel — currently taxed at a lower rate than ordinary gasoline — of €0.70 ($0.78) per liter by the year 2030. Such a rise would represent an increase of almost 60%. Petrol would rise by €0.47. Proposals also include a sharp increase in road tolls for heavy goods trucks, and an abolition of the country's "commuting allowance," which allows people traveling longer distances to work by car to claim tax rebates. Send  Facebook   Twitter   google+   Whatsapp   Tumblr   linkedin   stumble   Digg   reddit   Newsvine Permalink https://p.dw.com/p/2tQLv  Germany could face EU penalties if it fails to reduce greenhouse gas and poisonous nitrogen oxides emissions. Observers consider the transport sector as a key to meeting emissions reduction targets. Read more: German car lovers want to challenge Fridays for Future The country aims — by the year 2030 — to reduce its carbon emissions to 55% of the level they were in 1990. According to the document seen by the newspaper, those goals were "ambitious but feasible." Send  Facebook   Twitter   google+   Whatsapp   Tumblr   linkedin   stumble   Digg   reddit   Newsvine Permalink https://p.dw.com/p/1Ipdt No desire for limits In November, the Netherlands cut the daytime speed limit for traffic in the daytime to 100 kph, in an effort to tackle an emissions pollution crisis and improve air quality. The German government has already said it has no plans to introduce a speed limit on Germany's autobahn network. That came after a government-appointed commission on the future of mobility suggested an upper speed limit of 130 kph. And in October, German lawmakers overwhelmingly voted against a Greens proposal to impose speed limits. The only European country without a general speed limit on most parts of its highways, Germany nonetheless has an excellent network of motorways. They are generally well-maintained, inviting you to explore them. The minimum age for obtaining a driver's license used with a legal guardian present in Germany is 17. An unrestricted car driver's license can be granted at age 18. According to statistics by ADAC, Germany's national automobile association, traffic jams increased by around 15 percent in 2016 as compared to the previous year. That's a lot for a relatively small country. The increase resulted from both more cars on the highway, and more construction sites. So brace yourself for more time and stress in the car, especially around big cities. Even when you think you're soaring down the autobahn, you may get the distinct impression it's still not fast enough. Some German drivers may drive right up behind you and try to "push" you over. They may even flash their headlights to rattle your nerves. You aren't supposed to block the "fast" lane — the aim being to only use it for passing. But don't let pushy drivers bully you! Watch out for speed cameras! They are used widely in Germany, from the autobahn to inner city areas. These box-shaped devices are installed next to the road, and will often catch you unawares. Should you be driving over the speed limit, a ticket will be sent to your house, complete with a picture of you at the wheel and the license plate confirming your offense. Holding a cell phone in your hand while driving is an absolute no-no. If caught, you could be fined 100 euros ($124) and get a one-point penalty against your driver's license. Penalties spike up if you cause an accident, and you may have your license revoked. Fines were raised in 2017. Investing in a hands-free car kit is smarter. Penalties also apply to bicyclists using their cell phones. The same thing goes for not making way for emergency vehicles. Once traffic jams up, you are required to create a lane for ambulances and police, even before you see the flashing lights behind you. If not, you could be fined at least 200 euros (around $250) and get points on your license. The emergency lane is always between the far left and the rest of the lanes. You are also required to set up a warning signal should you break down or have an accident. This means placing an orange metal triangle on the road, donning a fluorescent jacket, both of which you must have in your car. You must also have a first-aid kit stored in your vehicle. In Germany, there's zero tolerance for beginners, as well as for professional drivers. There's a 0.05 percent blood alcohol content (BAC) limit to driving under the influence. Bicyclists may not exceed 0.16 percent. Penalties start at a €500 ($623) fine, points off your license and even a one-month license suspension. Best bet: don't drink and drive! Snow tires are required once streets become slick with slush, ice or snow. In Germany, the rule of thumb is that this can occur anytime between October and Easter. Should you not have snow tires installed on your car and still drive on slippery streets, you could be fined and have points taken off your license. Without proper snow tires, your insurance may also not cover an accident. To navigate both the German autobahn and city streets, the best approach is a zen one: take your time and don't let yourself get frazzled. Besides, with an expansive train and public transportation system in the country, you might not even want to hop into your car, but board a train and put up your feet! Author: Louisa Schaefer Each evening at 1830 UTC, DW's editors send out a selection of the day's hard news and quality feature journalism. You can sign up to receive it directly here.