Poland's nationalist government is risking the country's European Union membership with its judicial reforms, the country's Supreme Court said on Tuesday. Under the draft law, judges could be removed from their posts for taking part in "activities of a political nature" or acting in a way that could "harm the functioning of the justice system." The Supreme Court warned that the plans appear to be an attempt to stop judges from questioning the legitimacy of the government's reforms, forcing them to apply the regulations even if they are "incompatible with higher legal norms." Doing so would be in violation of EU rules, and would "very likely" lead to Poland being punished by the EU for not respecting its treaty commitments, the Supreme Court said in a statement. Should the ruling Law and Justice party (PiS) still refuse to back down and enact the reforms, Poland would then have to leave the bloc, the judges added. Read more: What are Poland's controversial judicial reforms? The city of Bialystok receives 4 million Euros out of the European Regional Development Fund for its new interactive museum within the science communication center in Bialystok. The "Laboratorium Młodego Mistrza i Odkrywcy" is supposed to draw children and youth from all over the region. The development fund has supported the new fleet of electric buses in Jaworzno, in the south of Poland, with 9.5 million euros. It is supposed to improve public transport in the city as well as constitue another step on the path towards a sustainable transport system. Workers on railway line 216 between Działdowo and Olsztyn. With 81 Million euros in EU funds, the renovation of this railway line is one of the bigger development projects in the country, representative of many investments in infrastructure. The railway company PKP Polskie Linie Kolejowe SA is the third biggest recipient of funds in Poland, with more than half a billion euros total. In the Lower Silesian Oncology Center in Wroclaw, the first center for breast diseases in the region is being built and equipped with the support of 7 Million Euros out of the development fund. The Oncology Center has received funding through the ERDF in the past, for example for new equipment, a radiotherapy unit or programs for the prevention of breast cancer. With the help of 39 million euros out of the Regional Development fund, the hospital in Toruń in northern Poland is being extended and reconstructed – including the construction of a new, modern main building. Poland invests around 555 million euros in healthcare projects between 2014 and 2020. A five kilometers long beltway around the city of Bobrek is being built with regional development funds. The project is supposed to improve the region's infrastructure and reduce air pollution by reducing traffic in the inner city. A flyover on the Vistula river with a passageway for wild animals is also planned. Małopolska Province in Poland's south receives 20 Million euros for this project. Via the portal Polona.pl, Polish citizens can take a look into the archive of the biggest libraries in the country. To make that possible, the National Library of Poland and the Jagiellonian Library in Krakow are digitizing their archives with the help of EU funds. To this end, the National Library receives almost 20 Million Euros. A sign informs passers-by about the EU funding for the renovation of this intersection in the Polish city of Rzeszów. The city receives 112 Million Euros total for 15 different projects. Signs like this one can be found all over the member states of the European Union. Author: Kira Schacht Collision course with Brussels The statement comes after the European Court of Justice asked Poland's Supreme Court to rule whether parts of the reforms would be free from political influence. The top court concluded that the independence of a new judicial council and disciplinary chamber could not be guaranteed. Furthermore, the judges said the proposed bill was "evidently" designed to allow President Andrzej Duda, a PiS ally, to select a new head of the Supreme Court ahead of next May's presidential election. The European Commission, the bloc's executive arm, has already launched rule-of-law investigations against Poland and Hungary over their attempts to bring courts and media under tighter state control. The probes could lead to a suspension of EU voting rights, although there is currently no mechanism for the EU to expel a member state. Poland joined the EU in 2004 and despite tensions between PiS and Brussels, public support for EU membership remains high. The country is a major beneficiary of EU funds for infrastructure projects and farmers. rs/aw (AFP, Reuters) Every evening, DW sends out a selection of the day's news and features. Sign up here. Send  Facebook   Twitter   google+   Whatsapp   Tumblr   linkedin   stumble   Digg   reddit   Newsvine Permalink https://p.dw.com/p/3IkW7