German Foreign Minister Heiko Maas on Sunday called for an end to the fighting in the Syrian province of Idlib as hundreds of thousands of people fled Russian and regime bombardment. "The humanitarian situation in Idlib is already catastrophic and is getting worse due to the fighting," Maas told the Funke Media Group. "An immediate end to the attacks and a lasting ceasefire are needed." Maas, a member of the Social Democrats, announced an additional €7 million ($7.8 million) in funding for a UN program tasked with providing assistance at the Syrian-Turkish border. Read more: Offensive in Syria's Idlib puts strain on EU-Turkey refugee deal Protesters have taken to the streets in Turkey to oppose air and ground operations by Syrian government forces Fresh offensives Idlib has been rocked by a fresh Russian offensive that has forced more than 200,000 people to flee the area, triggering what Turkey has described as a new wave of refugees. Over the past two years, thousands of hard-line rebels were transferred from battlefronts in other parts of Syria to Idlib as part of government-backed ceasefire deals. Those transfers have consequently made Idlib the final bastion of opposition to President Bashar al-Assad as well as a hotbed of extremist groups. Turkey has refused to leave 12 observation outposts in Idlib, saying they are recognized by an agreement with Moscow. Earlier this week, one outpost was surrounded by regime forces after they broke through rebel ranks, a move that nearly opened a new front in the conflict. Read more: Syrian civilians flee Idlib in wake of Russian-supported attacks 'Protect civilians' The European Union also joined calls for an end to shelling and airstrikes that have caused "countless civilian deaths." "The escalation of violence in the northwest of Syria by the Syrian regime and its allies must cease," said a spokesperson for EU foreign affairs chief Josep Borrell. "All parties have the obligation to protect civilians. The regime and its allies must cease indiscriminate military attacks and respect international humanitarian law." More than 300,000 people have been killed since the Syrian conflict erupted in 2011. What began as anti-government protests calling for Assad's ouster has transformed into a multi-front conflict drawing in superpowers, regional forces and nonstate actors. Read more: Germany caught between Turks and Kurds in Syria Every evening, DW's editors send out a selection of the day's hard news and quality feature journalism. You can sign up to receive it directly here. In late 2014, with the war in Syria approaching its fourth year and Islamic State making gains in the north of the country, the exodus of Syrians intensified. At the same time, others were fleeing violence and poverty in countries such as Iraq, Afghanistan, Eritrea, Somalia, Niger and Kosovo. Vast numbers of Syrian refugees had been gathering in border-town camps in neighboring Turkey, Lebanon and Jordan since 2011. By 2015, with the camps full to bursting and residents often unable to find work or educate their children, more and more people decided to seek asylum further afield. In 2015 an estimated 1.5 million people made their way on foot from Greece towards western Europe via the "Balkan route". The Schengen Agreement, which allows passport-free travel within much of the EU, was called into question as refugees headed towards the wealthier European nations. Tens of thousands of refugees were also attempting the perilous journey across the Mediterranean on overcrowded boats. In April 2015, 800 people of various nationalities drowned when a boat traveling from Libya capsized off the Italian coast. This was to be just one of many similar tragedies - by the end of the year, nearly 4,000 refugees were reported to have died attempting the crossing. Countries along the EU's external border struggled to cope with the sheer number of arrivals. Fences were erected in Hungary, Slovenia, Macedonia and Austria. Asylum laws were tightened and several Schengen area countries introduced temporary border controls. Critics of German Chancellor Angela Merkel's "open-door" refugee policy claimed it had made the situation worse by encouraging more people to embark on the dangerous journey to Europe. By September 2016, Germany had also introduced temporary checks on its border with Austria. In early 2016, the EU and Turkey signed an agreement under which refugees arriving in Greece could be sent back to Turkey. The deal has been criticized by human rights groups and came under new strain following a vote by the European Parliament in November to freeze talks on Turkey's potential accession to the EU. With anti-immigration sentiment in Europe growing, governments are still struggling to reach a consensus on how to handle the continuing refugee crisis. Attempts to introduce quotas for the distribution of refugees among EU member states have largely failed. Conflicts in the Middle East and elsewhere show no signs coming to an end, and the death toll from refugee sea crossings is on the rise. Author: Rachel Stewart ls/sms (AP, AFP)