Samoan authorities on Friday warned that propaganda opposing a mass vaccination drive would not be tolerated after an anti-immunization campaigner was arrested. Police arrested Edwin Tamasese and charged him with incitement against a government order late on Thursday. The country is struggling to control a measles epidemic that has killed at least 63 people, most of them children. Read more: WHO cites spike in global measles cases Details of the arrest were published by an online edition of national newspaper the Samoa Observer. The paper said Tamasese — who could potentially face up to two years in jail — was arrested after he breached a written warning demanding that he end his anti-vaccination activities. Tamasese, who has no medical training, has railed against Samoa's vaccination drive and promoted quack remedies such as papaya leaf extract and vitamins to treat measles. He posted a picture on social media of police driving him to the station. US anti-vaxxers are reportedly swamping Samoan government websites with material described as "nonsense." Send  Facebook   Twitter   google+   Whatsapp   Tumblr   linkedin   stumble   Digg   reddit   Newsvine Permalink https://p.dw.com/p/3UISd Communications Minister Afamasaga Rico Tupai warned that, by spreading false conspiracy theories, anti-vaxxers were hindering the unprecedented public health effort to stop the spread of the disease. "The anti-vaxxers unfortunately have been slowing us down," Tupai told New Zealand's TVNZ television channel. Read more: Why measles is so deadly and vaccination so important "We've had children who have passed away after coming to the hospital as a last resort and then we find out the anti-vaccine message has got to their families and that's why they've kept these kids at home." Tupai urged anti-vaxxers: "Don't get in the way, don't contribute to the deaths." Samoa on Friday entered the second day of a lockdown as it administers compulsory vaccinations. Businesses and non-essential government services have been shut down and residents have been told to obey a dawn-to-dusk curfew and to display a red flag outside their home if they are unvaccinated to alert mobile immunization teams. However, the infection has continued to spread, with 140 new cases in a 24-hour period, taking the total to 4,357. The death toll crept up by one to 63, with 55 of the fatalities aged four or under. rc/rt (AFP, EBU) Each evening at 1830 UTC, DW's editors send out a selection of the day's hard news and quality feature journalism. You can sign up to receive it directly here.