The German Insurance Industry Association (GDV) on Monday said the concept of implementing speed limits of Germany's famed autobahns requires further examination. Authorities need to clarify "whether a speed limit on motorways truly leads to a significant increase in safety, and if so, by how much," Siegfried Brockmann, who heads accident research at GDV, told the Redaktionsnetzwerk Deutschland. Brockmann noted that a systematic and comprehensive study of the impact of speed limits on Germany's limitless highways has yet to be conducted. "As far as Germany is concerned, we have a gap," he said, adding that highways were intentionally made to be used at higher speeds. The German Police Union (GdP) has supported similar studies, with its deputy leader Michael Mertens saying last week that expert opinion should be sought to determine the utility of a speed limit. Earlier this year, he had said that a speed limit would save lives. German officials are, however, divided over whether to implement the speed limit or not. Transport Minister Andreas Scheuer has openly denounced the potential implementation of a speed limit, while Environment Minister Svenja Schulze has voiced her support for it, reasoning that a speed limit will boost road safety and environmental health. Deputy Government Spokesperson Ulrike Demmer announced on Monday that "The federal government is not currently planning a general speed limit on German highways." Read more: Germany urged to tackle climate change with speed limits A proposal from a government commission proposed a nationwide speed limit of 130 km/h Need for speed The topic rose to the forefront of public debate when a government commission proposed restrictions as a way to curb emissions and combat climate change. It suggested that by imposing a speed limit, Germany could significantly reduce air pollution. But for many inside and outside Germany, the limitless highways are a German staple. Chancellor Angela Merkel's Christian Democrats and their sister party the Christian Social Union are against a nationwide speed limit while Social Democrats favor one. Germany is the only country in Europe with no official speed limit on highways. However, there are restrictions on many stretches, especially in and around cities and frequent interruptions due to road work. Germany's neighbors Austria, Denmark, the Netherlands, France and the Czech Republic all impose a 130 km/h (80 mph) limit. In Belgium and Switzerland, it sinks to 120 km/h. Every evening, DW's editors send out a selection of the day's hard news and quality feature journalism. You can sign up to receive it directly here. The only European country without a general speed limit on most parts of its highways, Germany nonetheless has an excellent network of motorways. They are generally well-maintained, inviting you to explore them. The minimum age for obtaining a driver's license used with a legal guardian present in Germany is 17. An unrestricted car driver's license can be granted at age 18. According to statistics by ADAC, Germany's national automobile association, traffic jams increased by around 15 percent in 2016 as compared to the previous year. That's a lot for a relatively small country. The increase resulted from both more cars on the highway, and more construction sites. So brace yourself for more time and stress in the car, especially around big cities. Even when you think you're soaring down the autobahn, you may get the distinct impression it's still not fast enough. Some German drivers may drive right up behind you and try to "push" you over. They may even flash their headlights to rattle your nerves. You aren't supposed to block the "fast" lane — the aim being to only use it for passing. But don't let pushy drivers bully you! Watch out for speed cameras! They are used widely in Germany, from the autobahn to inner city areas. These box-shaped devices are installed next to the road, and will often catch you unawares. Should you be driving over the speed limit, a ticket will be sent to your house, complete with a picture of you at the wheel and the license plate confirming your offense. Holding a cell phone in your hand while driving is an absolute no-no. If caught, you could be fined 100 euros ($124) and get a one-point penalty against your driver's license. Penalties spike up if you cause an accident, and you may have your license revoked. Fines were raised in 2017. Investing in a hands-free car kit is smarter. Penalties also apply to bicyclists using their cell phones. The same thing goes for not making way for emergency vehicles. Once traffic jams up, you are required to create a lane for ambulances and police, even before you see the flashing lights behind you. If not, you could be fined at least 200 euros (around $250) and get points on your license. The emergency lane is always between the far left and the rest of the lanes. You are also required to set up a warning signal should you break down or have an accident. This means placing an orange metal triangle on the road, donning a fluorescent jacket, both of which you must have in your car. You must also have a first-aid kit stored in your vehicle. In Germany, there's zero tolerance for beginners, as well as for professional drivers. There's a 0.05 percent blood alcohol content (BAC) limit to driving under the influence. Bicyclists may not exceed 0.16 percent. Penalties start at a €500 ($623) fine, points off your license and even a one-month license suspension. Best bet: don't drink and drive! Snow tires are required once streets become slick with slush, ice or snow. In Germany, the rule of thumb is that this can occur anytime between October and Easter. Should you not have snow tires installed on your car and still drive on slippery streets, you could be fined and have points taken off your license. Without proper snow tires, your insurance may also not cover an accident. To navigate both the German autobahn and city streets, the best approach is a zen one: take your time and don't let yourself get frazzled. Besides, with an expansive train and public transportation system in the country, you might not even want to hop into your car, but board a train and put up your feet! Author: Louisa Schaefer ls/aw (dpa, AFP)