The death toll from fierce back-to-back storms pummeling Spain, Portugal and France has risen to nine as the region reels from more powerful winds and flooding. The death of a fisherman in Catalonia, who was swept away by strong waves in the Mediterranean, brought the number killed up to nine since Storm Elsa whipped across from Wednesday to Friday. Seven of the deaths have been in Spain and two in Portugal. Send  Facebook   Twitter   google+   Whatsapp   Tumblr   linkedin   stumble   Digg   reddit   Newsvine Permalink https://p.dw.com/p/3Uhpg In southern Spain, the body of a windsurfer gone missing on Friday was found in the province of Huelva and a second man died when a river carried away his car on Saturday. A South Korean woman died in Madrid on Saturday when a piece of debris fell from a building. Read more: A new generation of 'hyper' satellites to prevent a climate catastrophe After Elsa, Fabian arrived As that storm subsided, Storm Fabian barreled off the Atlantic into Portugal, northern Spain and western France on Saturday packing winds of up to 170 kilometers (105 miles) per hour and dumping torrential rain. Spain's weather service has put the alert level for the entire northern coast and central parts of the country to "at risk" through Sunday into Monday. The Catalonia emergency telephone service received 1,118 calls due to the wind, specifically for fallen trees and damage to homes, according to regional authorities. France's weather service put the west coast on alert on Sunday, although the intensity of the storm was forecast to subside compared with a day earlier. Heavy rains and winds were expected across much of the country. Corsica cut off as mini-tornado strikes village In Corsica, officials closed the flooded Ajaccio airport and canceled all incoming flights from other airports. Additionally, no boats are able to cross the sea to or from the French island. Local shipping company Corsica Linea said it expects marine traffic to resume on Monday. Meanwhile, a mini-tornado struck a small village of 547 inhabitants in southern France, according to local newspaper Sud-Ouest. The tornado struck the village of Serrest-Sainte-Marie around 8:30 a.m. on Sunday, destroying 20 homes and displacing 80 people, or 15 families. Residents said that the storm lasted for roughly 20 minutes. The double whammy of storms sweeping through the region has caused rivers to burst their banks, brought down power lines and disrupted rail and air travel ahead of Christmas. More than 100,000 people across the three countries have been left without power. The summer of 2019 saw heat records in Europe broken across the continent. In July, Germany recorded its highest temperature ever at 42.6 C (108 F). France broke its heat record twice in 2019, the highest temperature measuring 46.C (114.8 F) in July. Climate change increases the frequency of heat waves. In November 2019, the Italian archipelago city of Venice experienced multiple flooding events and the high water mark of 1.5 meters was reached three times in one week for the first time in recorded history. Projected sea level rise due to climate change could make these events more likely in the future. The same heat wave that brought record temperatures to France sparked the worst wildfires to hit Spain in 20 years. On the Spanish island of Gran Canaria, wildfires in August decimated a national park on the popular tourist island. Hotter temperatures and drier air due to climate change increase the risk of fires. A combination of drought, storms and extreme heat is depleting Germany's forests. According to BDF, a forest advocacy group, in Germany, more than 1 million established trees have died since 2018. "These are no longer single unusual weather events. That is climate change," said a BDF representative. A glacier on the Italian side of Mont Blanc experienced accelerated melting in 2019. And enthusiasts held a "funeral" for the Pizol glacier in the Swiss Alps, which has almost completely disappeared. Scientists say climate change accelerates glacial melting in the Alps. Two consecutive years of drought in Germany have hit farmers hard. In 2018, record drought caused major crop failures, and heat waves in 2019 also damaged crops. "Climate change means more frequent droughts and extreme weather events in Germany,"said German Weather Service Vice President Paul Becker. lc, cw/mm (AFP, Reuters) Each evening at 1830 UTC, DW's editors send out a selection of the day's hard news and quality feature journalism. You can sign up to receive it directly here. 