A 54-year-old driver who rammed into a Christmas market booth in the town of Heubach while drunk is facing a hefty fine, police said Saturday. Officers said the man appeared to have overindulged in the hot spiced wine traditionally served at Germany's Christmas markets. He had been attempting to exit a car park in the southern town on Friday night when he crashed into one of the stands, causing more than €4,000 ($4,450) in damage. But instead of extracting his car right away, he went back to the market to order another glass of wine, a police statement said. The man moved the vehicle later as police arrived at the scene. Read more: Drunken raccoon staggers through German Christmas market, passes out A 55-year-old man working at the stall suffered minor injuries, the statement said. Police said the driver had provided them with a blood sample and would be fined. Authorities in Germany boosted security measures at Christmas markets and other public gatherings after 2016, when a truck plowed into a market at Berlin's Breitscheidplatz, killing 12 people. Many markets now have cement bollards and car barriers to block vehicle access. A glowing Santa Claus waves to passers-by on Kurfürstendamm (Ku’damm for short), the prominent shopping street in the west of Berlin. He is in good company, too: Nutcrackers, reindeer, snowmen and other figures adorn the central strip of the boulevard. Around 600 illuminated trees flank the four-kilometer-long (2.5-mile-long) Ku'damm. Each tree requires between 200 and 300 meters (656–984 feet) of holiday lights. In the midst of this sea of lights, Christmas shopping is as fun as ever. For many visitors to Berlin, this is the capital's most romantic Christmas market. The impressive facades of the Konzerthaus, French and German Cathedrals form the atmospheric setting for the Christmas market at Gendarmenmarkt. The various tents and stalls offer a wide range of high-quality handicrafts. The Neptune Fountain shines in red and blue light. On an ice rink, visitors take their laps around the mythological god of the sea. This is the center of the Christmas market at Berlin's "Rotes Rathaus" or Red Town Hall. Visitors have the best view of the hustle and bustle from the 50-meter-high Ferris wheel. Berlin's Botanical Garden also lights up in the Christmas season. For the fourth year running, the Christmas Garden enchants visitors during the Advent season. Under the theme "The magical journey begins at dusk" it takes visitors through the illuminated circular path past more than 30 light installations. In the background: the festively illuminated greenhouses. New this year: an enchanting winter world at the Tierpark zoo in Friedrichsfelde. For the first time, visitors can take an evening stroll through the festively lit gardens and glide through the evening on an ice skating rink. Sapphire blue and gleaming gold — every year the light installations at Potsdamer Platz's Sony Center are an eye-catcher. In the surrounding restaurants you can enjoy the view of Pegasus and the other mythical creatures while taking a break from the city action. Perhaps the most beautiful Christmas tree in Berlin is at Marlene-Dietrich-Platz. It weighs 5,000 kilograms (5.5 US tons) is 20 meters high (65.6 feet) and decorated with 9,000 baubles and 150,000 LED lights. Since it's an artificial tree, it can be reused each holiday season. For years, it has been the glittering finale to the Christmas market along Alte Potsdamer Strasse. Author: Lisa Marie Jordan DW sends out a daily selection of hard news and quality feature journalism. Sign up here.