A politician in Russia was reportedly forcibly conscripted to the military and sent to a remote Arctic Circle air base, opposition politician Alexei Navalny said on Wednesday. Navalny accused the Russian government of effectively kidnapping Ruslan Shaveddinov and illegally imprisoning him. Shaveddinov is a project manager at Navalny's Anti-Corruption Foundation. He was also part of Navalny's unsuccessful campaign for the presidency in 2018, working as a TV presenter for Navalny's online channel. "He has been unlawfully deprived of freedom," Navalny said in a blog post, calling the 23-year-old a "political prisoner." Shaveddinov was detained on Monday at his Moscow home, after the door to his flat was broken down, the electricity cut, and the SIM card on his mobile phone remotely disabled. Ruslan Shaveddinov (right) is Alexei Navalny's project manager. By Tuesday, he was already at a remote military base on Novaya Zemlya (also known as Nova Zembla), some 2,000 km (1,240 miles) north of Moscow and in the Arctic Ocean. Shaveddinov was able to make a phone call on Wednesday, by using someone else's phone, given that he had been barred from having a mobile phone during his one year of military service, Navalny said. Read more:Russia's crackdown on Alexei Navalny seen as an 'intimidation tactic' Medical condition Men in Russia between the ages of 18 and 27 are eligible for conscription and typically serve one year's military service. However, many find ways to avoid it. Russian's military accused Shaveddinov of having dodged the draft for a long time. Kremlin spokesman Dmitry Peskov said Shaveddinov's treatment appeared legal if he'd been a draft dodger. "If he evaded conscription, he broke the relevant law of the Russian Federation," said Peskov. "If he dodged conscription and was conscripted in this way then everything was done strictly in accordance with the law." But Navalny asserted that Shaveddinov had a valid medical condition that made him ineligible for military service. "Serving in the army has simply turned into a way of locking people up," Navalny wrote on social media. Opposition supporters staged protests in Moscow, demanding his release. Some even demonstrated in front of the army's headquarters. Activists have likened Shaveddinov's treatment to the method used in Tsarist Russia and the former Soviet Union of shipping political opponents to far-off corners of the country. jcg/msh (Reuters, AFP) The lawyer-turned-political campaigner has been among the most prominent figures of Russia's opposition to President Vladimir Putin. Navalny came to prominence in 2008, when his blog exposing malpractice in Russian politics and among the country's major state-owned companies came to public attention. Revelations published on his blog even led to resignations, a rarity in Russian politics. In 2011, Navalny was arrested for the first time, spending 15 days in prison for his role at a rally outside the State Duma in Moscow. The parliamentary election victory for Putin's United Russia was marred by instances of ballot stuffing, reported by demonstrators on social media. Upon his release, Navalny pledged to make "extraordinary efforts" to continue the protest movement. After being reelected president in 2012, Putin ordered Russia's Investigative Committee to launch a criminal inquiry into Navalny's past. The following year the campaigner was charged and sentenced again, this time for five years, for alleged embezzlement in the city of Kirov. However, he was released the following day pending affirmation from a higher court. The sentence was later suspended. Despite being embroiled in legal troubles, Navalny was allowed to run in the 2013 Moscow mayoral election. A second-place finish behind Putin ally Sergei Sobyanin was seen as an overwhelming success and galvanized the Russian opposition movement. His anti-Kremlin rhetoric has led to Navalny being banned from appearing on Russian state-owned television. That has forced him to deliver his political message over social media and his blog. His talent for public speaking, punchy use of language and humorous mockery of Putin and his loyalists has mobilized a legion of young followers. In December 2016, the opposition leader announced the formal start of his campaign to run for the Russian presidency in March 2018. However, repeated accusations of corruption, which his supporters say are politically motivated, ultimately barred him from running for public office. In 2016, the European Court of Human Rights ruled that Russia had violated Navalny's right to a fair trial in the Kirov case. Although Russia's Supreme Court overturned the five-year sentence, the verdict was sent back to the Kirov court, which in 2017 again charged Navalny with a suspended five-year sentence. In February 2017, anti-corruption rallies across dozens of Russian cities led to the arrests of over 1,000 demonstrators, including Navalny. The protests, believed to have been the largest in the Russian capital since 2012, were spurred by a report published by Navalny linking Prime Minister Dmitry Medvedev to a billion-euro property empire. Navalny was released 15 days later. Navalny was assaulted and hospitalized in April 2017 after being hit in the eye with a chemical green dye, an attack that permanently damaged his right cornea. Navalny accused Russian authorities of stopping him from seeking medical treatment abroad due to the embezzlement conviction against him. He was eventually permitted by the Kremlin human rights council to travel to Spain for eye surgery. In 2018, Navalny was jailed for 30 days, and then another 20-day stint upon his release in September. In April 2019, the European Court of Human Rights ruled Russia had violated Navalny's rights by holding him under house arrest for most of 2014 during the Kirov embezzlement case. Only weeks after being released from a 10-day jail sentence, Navalny was again jailed for 30 days in July 2019 for violating Russia's strict protest laws. The opposition leader accused Russia of poisoning him with an allergic agent while in jail. Author: David Martin Each evening at 1830 UTC, DW's editors send out a selection of the day's hard news and quality feature journalism. You can sign up to receive it directly here.