As Albania begins to clean up and take stock following a devastating earthquake earlier this week, German Chancellor Angela Merkel has promised to help with recovery efforts. "Germany and the European Union will support you at this difficult time," Merkel said in a condolence message to Albanian Prime Minister Edi Rama on Sunday. The chancellor also offered her condolences to the victims' families and the Albanian government. "I know about the pain that you and your own family have also experienced," she wrote. The partner of the prime minister's son was reportedly among those killed. The 6.4 magnitude earthquake on Tuesday killed 51 people and injured hundreds of others in the small Balkan state. Thousands more were left homeless. Read more: Albania earthquake — Tears, prayers in village near epicenter 'Impossible to do this alone' Earlier Sunday, Rama called on the international community to send financial aid and expert assistance to help the country recover. "Simply, this is humanly impossible to do this alone,'' Rama said at cabinet meeting. Civil engineers from European Union member states and from the United States have already teamed up with local experts to assess the damage caused by the quake. Albania ended a multiday search-and-rescue operation on Saturday and has started the cleanup process. An estimated 2,000 buildings were damaged. The three districts hit hardest by the quake — Tirana, Durres and Lezha — remain in a state of emergency. It is unclear when schools will reopen. On Sunday morning, the mayor of Durres resigned after saying she was "pleased" that only around 50 people had died in the quake. In remarks made on Saturday, Mayor Valbona Sako blamed code violations, poor construction and corruption for the bulk of the deaths. Her remarks sparked outcry, with people accusing her of insensitivity, Tuesday's earthquake, which struck off Albania's Adriatic coast, was the deadliest to hit the country in decades. rs/cmk (dpa, AP) Each evening at 1830 UTC, DW's editors send out a selection of the day's hard news and quality feature journalism. You can sign up to receive it directly here. The earthquake hit shortly before shortly before 4 a.m. as people slept. Witnesses reported buildings partially collapsing around them as they woke up. Many people were trapped under the rubble when residential buildings in the towns of Thumane and Durres collapsed. One man in Kurbin died trying to escape a building by jumping out of the window. Rescue teams were racing to recover survivors, but the authorities described their work as "extremely difficult" due to high risk of more structures collapsing. The neighboring Kosovo, which also populated mostly by Albanians, sent a contigent of vehicles and emergency responders across the border. Other Balkan countries and the EU all pledged to deploy rescuers and equipment. By early afternoon, hundreds of people had been reported injured and scores were hospitalized. Soldiers were erecting hundreds of tents to house those who were left without safe homes. While only Albanian authorities were reporting causalities, the quake was felt all over the Balkan Peninsula, including northern Serbia, Greece, and Bulgaria. The 6.4-magnitude earthquake was the most powerful felt in the past 30 years, according to the Defense Ministry. Images of collapsed buildings suggested it may have been worse than the 1979 quake that razed a neighborhood of a northern town.