Turkish President Recep Tayyip Erdogan arrived in Tunisia with his security cabinet on Wednesday for unscheduled talks with his Tunisian counterpart, Kais Saied. Shortly after his arrival, Erdogan announced that he discussed possible steps with Saied to secure a ceasefire in Libya. Last week, Turkish parliament backed a security deal between the Turkish government and Libya's internationally-recognized government that would effectively allow Ankara to provide military assistance. Read more: Turkey-Libya maritime deal triggers Mediterranean tensions Forces loyal to rival governments have fought for power across Libya Turkish military support On Tuesday, Erdogan spokesman Ibrahim Kalin said parliament has taken additional measures to shore up military support for Libya in the event the Turkish government considers deploying troops on Libyan soil. "There might be a need for an authorization in line with the developments over there. The parliament is conducting work on this issue," said Kalin, "We will continue to support the internationally-recognized Libyan government." "This support may be in terms of military training, or other areas, such as political support." Read more: What is Turkey doing in Libya? No end in sight Turkey is at odds with Saudi Arabia, Russia and Egypt, which support a rival eastern-based Libyan government backed by general-turned-warlord Khalifa Haftar. His National Libyan Army has warned against Turkish interventions, saying it further destabilizes the country. Libya was plunged into chaos in 2011 after the late dictator Moammar Gadhafi launched a brutal crackdown against anti-government protesters. NATO-backed rebels eventually defeated the regime and captured Gadhafi, who was killed in captivity. Since then, warring factions have fought a bitter war to maintain power in the North African country. Read more: Can the EU and partners stabilize Libya? Every evening, DW's editors send out a selection of the day's hard news and quality feature journalism. You can sign up to receive it directly here. Send  Facebook   Twitter   google+   Whatsapp   Tumblr   linkedin   stumble   Digg   reddit   Newsvine Permalink https://p.dw.com/p/3QOvk ls/aw (Reuters, dpa)