Germany's top court on Friday issued an opinion that could help consumers who want to sue auto giant Volkswagen over the wide-ranging scandal known as Dieselgate. The Federal Court of Justice (BGH) in Karlsruhe said that the emissions-cheating software purposely loaded onto hundreds of thousands of diesel cars, produced by several companies, could be considered a "defect." "In the case of a vehicle delivered to the buyer with an illegal defeat device... the presence of a material defect can be assumed," the BGH said in a statement. The decision was about more than semantics, however, as the wording will provide a boon to diesel customers who are trying to launch a class-action lawsuit against VW. This kind of suit is a rarity in Germany. It also means that VW cannot argue that it should not have to buy back the cars, as the firm had claimed they remained "functional." 50,000 lawsuits According to Volkswagen, about 50,000 lawsuits are pending against the carmaker or affiliated businesses, with about 14,000 already settled, many of them in favour of the company. Read more: Does the world still love German cars? About two weeks after Volkswagen admitted behind closed doors to US environmental regulators that it had installed cheating software in some 11 million of its diesel vehicles worldwide, the Environmental Protection Agency shared that information with the public. It was September 18, 2015. The ensuing crisis would eventually take a few unexpected turns. Volkswagen's then-CEO Martin Winterkorn (above) had little choice but to step down several days after news of the scandal broke. In September, he tendered his resignation, but retained his other posts within the Volkswagen Group. Winterkorn's successor was Matthias Müller. Until taking the reins at VW, Müller had been the chairman at Porsche, a VW subsidiary. Regulators in the US weren't the only ones investigating VW. Authorities in Lower Saxony, the German state in which VW is based, were also scrutinizing the company. On October 8, state prosecutors raided VW's headquarters along with several other corporate locations. On January 4, 2016, the US government filed a lawsuit against VW in Detroit, accusing the German automaker of fraud and violations of American climate protection regulations. The lawsuit sought up to $46 billion for violations of the Clean Air Act. In March, the head of VW in the US, Michael Horn, resigned. In the initial days and weeks after the scandal broke, he was the one US authorities turned to for information. He issued an official apology on behalf of the automaker, asking for the public's forgiveness. On October 25, a US judge approved a final settlement that would have VW pay $15.3 billion. In addition, affected cars would be retrofitted with better, non-deceptive hardware and software, or else VW would buy them back completely from customers. When dieselgate first emerged in 2015, analysts said it was likely other car makers were also cheating tests. But it wasn't until 2017 that other companies were targeted in probes. In July, German authorities launched investigations into luxury car makers Porsche and Daimler for allegedly cheating emissions tests. Others, such as Audi and Chrysler, have also been hit by similar allegations. Despite dieselgate, VW has managed to keep the emissions scandal from utterly tarnishing its image. According to several polls, between 55 to 67 percent of Germans continue to trust the automaker. In the US, polls show that roughly 50 percent still believe the German company produces worthwhile vehicles. In late January, however, VW suffered another heavy blow over reports that the company experimented on monkeys and made the animals inhale diesel fumes. To make matters worse, a separate experiment that had humans inhale relatively harmless nitrogen dioxide was revealed at the same time. Some media wrongly interpreted this to mean humans were also inhaling toxic fumes. Author: Dirk Kaufmann Dieselgate erupted in 2015, when US researchers discovered that many Volkswagen vehicles had software installed to make it look like the cars were passing emissions regulations when they were not. A number of car makers soon became targeted with similar accusations, including Volvo, Jeep, Renault, and Fiat. Consumers were irate, as vehicles they thought had been frugal purchases soon became illegal to use in many parts of Germany. VW has had had to pay about 28 billion euros ($31.75 billion) for compensation, fines, buybacks, and refits. The scandal is believed to have affected about 11 million cars worldwide and caused significant damage to VW's reputation. Send  Facebook   Twitter   google+   Whatsapp   Tumblr   linkedin   stumble   Digg   reddit   Newsvine Permalink https://p.dw.com/p/38xxt es/rt (dpa/AFP) Every evening at 1830 UTC, DW's editors send out a selection of the day's hard news and quality feature journalism. You can sign up to receive it directly here.