Pro-separatist groups have clashed with police over the trial of 12 Catalan separatist leaders on Thursday. The protests have been disruptive. Riot police used batons on a group of young protesters in downtown Barcelona. At the Plaza Catalunya station, demonstrators occupied the rail tracks to stop train traffic. Demonstrators blocked major roads with rallies and burning tires. According to authorities, around 20 roads were cut off, including the A7, which links Spain to France and the A2 which runs between Madrid and Barcelona. A police spokeperson said some of these blocks have since been removed. One resident posted a video showing a large column of smoke rising over burning tires on a highway. The protests began as a general strike, called by students and small unions of pro-independence workers. But although intended as a demonstration for labor law reforms, crowds carried pro-secession flags and chanted for the release of the separatist leaders on trial. The general one-day strike has brought parts of the region to a standstill Catalonia declared its independence from Spain in 2017, after holding a referendum outlawed by Spain's Supreme Court. Twelve leaders of this separatist movement were arrested later that year, nine of whom have since been held without bail, awaiting trial. They could be jailed for up to 25 years, on charges of rebellion, sedition and misuse of public funds. Read more: Catalonia crisis: Spain takes over regional parliament, calls elections after independence declaration nn/msh (Reuters, AP) As the world watched, Catalonia's parliament voted 70 to 10 for the region to declare its independence from Spain. "Our legitimate parliament has taken a very important step. This is the people's mandate," Puigdemont said after the decision. Dozens of opposition lawmakers from the Socialist Party, Citizens Party and Popular Party had walked out of the parliament chamber to boycott the vote. Within an hour of the Catalan vote, the Spanish Senate in Madrid passed a bill to trigger Article 155 of the Spanish constitution. The measure will allow the central government to suspend Catalonia's autonomy. Spanish Prime Minister Mariano Rajoy said he would sack Catalonia’s government and set new regional elections for December 21. European leaders were quick to condemn the independence declaration. EU Commission President Jean-Claude Juncker said the Union "doesn't need any more cracks," while EU Council President Donald Tusk said Madrid "remains our only interlocutor." Leaders in Germany, France, Italy and the UK voiced their support for Madrid. The US also chimed in, saying "Catalonia is an integral part of Spain." Barcelona and Madrid had been in a standoff since 93 percent of voters opted for Catalan independence in an October 1 referendum marred by police violence. Spain said the poll was illegal and stressed the low voter turnout of 43 percent. It subsequently threatened to suspend the region's autonomy if Catalan leaders did not stop their drive for independence. Many had expected tensions to ease on October 26 when Catalan President Carles Puigdemont was expected to call snap elections to bow to a key Spanish government demand. But Puigdemont refused, saying that he did not have enough "guarantees" from Madrid. Instead, he called on the Catalan parliament to decide on how to respond to Spain's threat to suspend the region's autonomy. Tens of thousands of pro-independence protesters had taken to the streets of Barcelona ahead of the independence declaration to demand the region's secession and the release of two leaders of pro-independence organizations, Jordi Cuixart and Jordi Sanchez. Independence has divided Catalonia. Many who supported continued unity with Spain refused to vote in the October 1 referendum. The pro-independence crowds outside the Catalan parliament immediately rejoiced after hearing the independence declaration. Many people were draped in the "Estelada" flag associated with Catalan independence. Some reportedly called for the Spanish flag to be removed from the Catalan government palace as regional lawmakers arrived from the parliament. (Author: Alexander Pearson) Author: Alexander Pearson