UK lawmakers backed a plan by Prime Minister Theresa May on Wednesday that could result in a delay to the country's planned exit from the European Union. More than 500 MPs voted in favor of a motion by Labour Party MP Yvette Cooper that voiced support for the three-step plan, which foresees parliament voting a second time on a revised version of May's Brexit deal by March 12. If the deal is defeated, parliament would then vote on whether to leave the EU without a deal or delay its departure date. The vote came a day after May presented her plan to lawmakers. Read more: Brexit: May offers MPs a choice between a deal, 'no deal' or delay Send  Facebook   Twitter   google+   Whatsapp   Tumblr   linkedin   stumble   Digg   reddit   Newsvine Permalink https://p.dw.com/p/3E8wS Alternative Labour plan rejected Cooper's motion was one of four that lawmakers voted on during a parliamentary debate on Wednesday: Labor backs second referendum Despite the defeat of his party's amendment, leader Jeremy Corbyn said Labour would continue to push for other options "including a close economic relationship based on our credible alternative plan or a general election." But Corbyn also said a second Brexit referendum would be on the table. "We will back a public vote in order to prevent a damaging Tory Brexit or a disastrous no deal outcome," he said. Corbyn's remarks followed a Labour statement that it would sponsor or support a second vote if the party's amendment was rejected in Parliament. Macron and Merkel weigh in Ahead of Wednesday's debate, Chancellor Angela Merkel discussed Brexit during a meeting with President Emmanuel Macron in Paris. President Emmanuel Macron and Chancellor Angela Merkel in Paris At the press conference after their discussions, both leaders made statements about an extension to the process — with a slight difference in tone. Merkel said that Germany and France "agree completely" that the already-negotiated withdrawal agreement between the EU and the UK stands. Read more: Brexit: What Europe wants However, she added that the EU would not refuse the UK more time, if an extension was requested. "If Britain needs a bit more time, we will not refuse that, but we are aiming for an orderly solution — an orderly withdrawal by the British from the European Union," she said. Macron said there was a need for a clear objective if any delay was envisaged: "We would agree to A50 [Article 50] extension only if it is justified by a new choice by the British." He added: "In no way can we accept an extension without a clear objective." Read more: The draft Brexit deal — what you need to know. Ahead of the parliamentary votes, UK premier May repeated that she did not want any postponement: "The government's policy is to get the legally binding changes so a deal can be brought back to this house... and we can leave on March 29 with a deal," she said. Each evening at 1830 UTC, DW's editors send out a selection of the day's hard news and quality feature journalism. You can sign up to receive it directly here.