The debate raging ahead of the Grammy Award event is similar to the one that preceded the Oscars: There are too few African-Americans and women among the nominees, and among the winners (in 2018, for instance, only one female solo performer was awarded during the live ceremony). But the debate that led to the #OscarsSOWhite protests has generated change at the 61st Grammy Awards. To give African-American and female artists a better chance in main categories which, unlike the Oscars, don't gift separate awards for men and women, there are eight nominations instead of the usual five. Bruno Mars won seven Grammys in 2018, but his music's sex and drugs themes made him a controversial choice Record doesn't equal song The main categories for all music genres include record, song, album of the year and best new artist. The record and song of the year might sound similar but the former honors the artist who recorded and performed the music, the latter the actual songwriter. Sometimes, the two overlap because the writer is often also the performer. This year, six artists are nominated in both categories: in theory, rappers Kendrick Lamar, Drake and Childish Gambino as well as Lady Gaga, folk singer Brandi Carlile and German-Russian producer Zedd could go home with both awards. Increasing the number of nominees has already paid off: five of the eight artists nominated for album of the year are women this year, and just as many are African-American. Rapper Kendrick Lamar is symbolic of what the change might bring: Since 2015 his 11 Grammy wins were all in the rap category, with one for best video. Despite has huge critical and commercial success he has never won in the main categories. But that is likely about to change. Folk singer songwriter Brandi Carlile has six nominations, the most of any women Award night After a New York Times report suggested that Lamar, Childish Gambino and Drake all declined opportunities to perform at the Grammys this year, it has yet been confirmed that Post Malone, Lady Gaga, Katy Perry and the Red Hot Chili Peppers will be on stage in LA on Sunday — meanwhile, Ariana Grande, nominated in two pop categories, has cancelled a planned performance after the organizers allegedly interfered with her song selection. In addition to teen heartthrobs and starlets like Shawn Mendes and Camila Cabello, Grammy nominees this year also include old hands in the business like Beck, the Backstreet Boys, Seal, Barbra Streisand and Willie Nelson. Alicia Keys will be hosting the 61st annual Grammy Award ceremony at Staples Center in LA on February 10. Bruno Mars (right) dominated the Grammy Awards on Sunday, taking home all six awards he was nominated for, including record of the year and album of the year for "24K Magic" and song of the year for the No. 1 hit "That's What I Like." He beat out top nominees, including Jay-Z and Kendrick Lamar, for record of the year. Earlier in the night, he performed his song "Finesse" with Cardi B (left). Though not in attendance, German electronic music band Kraftwerk took home the award for best dance/electronic album for "3-D The Catalogue." The longtime performers previously received a Grammy for lifetime achievement in 2014. Latin dance hit "Despacito," one of the biggest global hits of all time, failed to take home any awards despite three nominations, including song of the year and record of the year. Nevertheless, the performance by Luis Fonsi and Daddy Yankee was a huge hit. Kendrick Lamar swept all the rap prizes, but lost out in the main categories. Lamar took home five awards, including best rap album for "DAMN." and best rap song for "HUMBLE." He opened the evening with an act that featured U2 frontman Bono and provocative imagery, including an American flag and dancers dressed in military fatigues and men in red hoodies whom Lamar mimed shooting one by one. The social commentary continued with jabs at Donald Trump, as host James Corden introduced a video of celebrities reading from Michael Wolff's controversial and unflattering book on the president, "Fire and Fury: Inside The Trump White House." John Legend, Cher, Snoop Dogg, Cardi B, and DJ Khaled read from the best-seller, with Trump's Democratic challenger Hillary Clinton chiming in at the end. The #MeToo movement was a central theme at Sunday's ceremony, with many performers wearing white roses in support of the campaign against sexual harassment and abuse. Kesha's song "Praying," which deals with mental illness and alleged abuse she suffered at the hands of her former music producer, was performed by a chorus of women, including Camila Cabello (right) and Cyndi Lauper (left). Lady Gaga wore a white rosebud and a Time's Up pin on the red carpet, promoting the slogan for the movement launched on January 1 by hundreds of prominent women in the entertainment industry. During her performance of ballads "Joanne" and "Million Reasons," she whispered "Time's up," another reference to the #MeToo movement. Musicians honored the victims of the mass shooting at the Route 91 Harvest Festival last October in Las Vegas, as well as the bombing outside an Ariana Grande concert in Manchester in May. Country artists Eric Church, Maren Morris and Brothers Osborne — part of the lineup in Las Vegas — gave an emotional performance of Eric Clapton's classic "Tears in Heaven," standing in front victims' names. Though not nominated, many other music greats were part of the show in New York. Other performers included Pink, Childish Gambino, Emmylou Harris and Chris Stapleton, Sam Smith, Rihanna with DJ Khaled and Bryson Tiller, Sting and SZA, and Elton John and Miley Cyrus, seen here. Author: Martin Kuebler (AP, Reuters)