A Biman Bangladesh Airlines plane was forced to make an emergency landing in the southeastern Bangladeshi city of Chattogram on Sunday after a man allegedly tried to hijack the aircraft. The plane was en route to Dubai from Dhaka, with a stopover in Chittagong, when the incident took place on Sunday, Civil Aviation and Tourism Secretary Mohibul Haque said. The jetliner made an emergency landing at Shah Amanat International Airport in Chittagong at 5:15 p.m. (1315 UTC). Police said security forces stormed the plane and tried to arrest the lone suspect, a Bangladeshi man, aged around 25. SM Matiur Rahman, a major general in the Bangladesh Army, said the suspect acted aggressively toward officers on the plane, and in response, commandos opened fire on the man, who was injured and immediately detained. He died a short time later as he was being transported from the scene. "We didn't have the chance to negotiate. Our commandos had to act swiftly," Rahman said. The army official said the suspect, whose name has not been released, asked to speak to his wife or to Prime Minister Sheikh Hasina. Airline officials said all passengers had safely exited the plane. "All 150 plus passengers are safe," Air Vice Marshall Nayeem Hasan told French news agency AFP, adding that it was unclear what the man's intentions were. "We think he is a suspected madman. He is saying that he has a bomb, but we are not sure," Hasan said. One passenger told reporters in Chittagong that the suspect "fired twice ... just ten minutes after the plane took off [from Dhaka]." An investigation would be carried out to determine whether security lapses had occurred, officials said. Aeromexico flight 2431 was departing from Durango, Mexico on July 31, 2018 when it crashed. The plane, a Brazilian Embraer 190 was carrying more than 100 people. While there were injuries, everyone survived the crash. When a flock of birds knocked out both engines of a US Airways jet on January 15, 2009, Captain Sully Sullenberger managed to put the plane down in the ice-cold waters of the Hudson River off Manhattan Island in New York. Everyone was saved and his heroism was celebrated in the movie Sully: Miracle on the Hudson, starring Tom Hanks. On August 2, 2005, an Air France Airbus A340 with 297 passengers and 12 crew members crashed as it was landing at Toronto's Pearson International Aiport in Canada during a heavy rainstorm. Twelve people sustained serious injuries. Even though two slides failed, the crew managed to evacuate everyone from the airport. On December 20, 2008, a Contiental Airlines Boeing 737 was attempting to take off from Denver International Airport. Crosswinds that gusted higher than expected, caused the plane to veer off the runway and crash into a ravine. Luckily, everyone walked away. The Boeing 377 Stratocruiser flying between Honolulu and San Francisco on October 16, 1956 had to make an emergency water landing when two of its engines failed. There were 24 passengers and 7 crew. The captain successfully landed the airplane in the water and everyone survived. Author: Andy Valvur mm, law/jm (AFP, AP, dpa, Reuters) Each evening at 1830 UTC, DW's editors send out a selection of the day's hard news and quality feature journalism. You can sign up to receive it directly here.