US President Donald Trump has said that he may impose tariffs on cars and auto parts imported from the European Union if Washington is unable to make a trade deal with Brussels.  The comments came during a meeting with Austrian Chancellor Sebastian Kurz on Wednesday at the White House. "We are negotiating with them. If we don't make the deal, we will do the tariffs," Trump told reporters. "[The EU has] been very difficult over a period of time, over many, many years." Trump is currently reviewing a report from the US Department of Commerce on whether or not imported vehicles and parts pose a threat to US national security. The department's findings have not yet been made public. The European Union is the US' largest export market, accounting for about one-fifth of all US exports. Similarly, one-fifth of EU exports go to the United States. EU-US trade in goods and services was €1,069.3 billion in 2017. The EU imported €256.2 billion in goods from the US, and exported €375.8 billion. The main exports and imports between the EU and US fall into the categories of machinery and vehicles, chemicals and other manufactured goods. Combined, they accounted for 89 percent of EU exports and imports with the US in 2017. In all three categories, as well as food and drink, the EU had a trade surplus. The US had a trade surplus in raw materials and energy. At €167 billion, machinery and vehicles were the largest EU export category to the US, accounting for 44.4 percent of goods exports. The €111.5 billion in machinery and transport equipment was the largest EU import from the US, accounting for 43.6 percent of imports. At the end of May 2018, the Trump administration imposed a 25 percent tariff on EU steel and 10 percent tariff on aluminum. Steel and aluminum exports to the United States were worth €3.58 billion in 2017. In response, the European Union developed a list of products it may subject to retaliatory tariffs. These include typical American products like peanut butter, bourbon whiskey, Harley Davidson motorcycles, jeans and orange juice. The exports targeted by the EU are worth about €2.8 billion annually, according to EU officials. For services, the EU imports amounted to €219.3 billion and exports €218 billion. The top services were in professional and management services, intellectual property, travel and education. About a third of EU-US trade consists of intra-company transfers. Author: Chase Winter Attempt to de-escalate trade tensions Kurz said he wanted to advance trade negotiations during his talks with the US leader and to ensure that the trade war between the EU and the US "does not gain momentum." Austria's suppliers to German carmakers would likely suffer greatly from the tariffs — a fate Kurz is hoping to avoid. "As a small country, we need international cooperation," he said. Although Trump said the US and Austria have a "great trade relationship," he criticized the US trade deficit with the EU, saying that Brussels is "very tough to make a deal with." The two leaders did not appear to see eye-to-eye on trade, but Kurz praised Trump's pro-Israel stance, his diplomacy with North Korea as well as his pressure on European NATO members to increase military spending. Trump, in turn, praised Austria as a "beautiful" country and joked with Kurz about his age, telling the 32-year-old that he is "a very young guy." Read more: No more BMWs or Mercs on Fifth Avenue? Send  Facebook   Twitter   google+   Whatsapp   Tumblr   linkedin   stumble   Digg   reddit   Newsvine Permalink https://p.dw.com/p/39WA8 Tariff threat Trump has threatened to levy tariffs on car imports from the EU in a bid to pressure the 28-member bloc to grant better access for US products. The US imported $340 billion (€300 billion) in cars, trucks and auto parts in 2017. Although US carmakers would benefit from the import tax on their European competitors, the move would also likely put their businesses at risk. Many US carmakers depend on imported parts that would be subject to Trump's tariffs, making them more expensive. The companies could also be subject to retaliatory tariffs, as well. The Trump administration has already imposed tariffs on imported steel and aluminum, as well as hundreds of Chinese products. Send  Facebook   Twitter   google+   Whatsapp   Tumblr   linkedin   stumble   Digg   reddit   Newsvine Permalink https://p.dw.com/p/3Dhcm rs/cmk (AP, dpa) Each evening at 1830 UTC, DW's editors send out a selection of the day's hard news and quality feature journalism. You can sign up to receive it directly here.