Donald Trump is a "racist" and a "con man," his former lawyer Michael Cohen told the US House of Representatives Committee on Oversight and Reform at the outset of a damning public testimony based on his decadelong professional relationship with the US president.  Cohen, who once boasted he would "take a bullet" for Trump, accused the president of potential campaign finance violations and prior knowledge of efforts to derail the presidential campaign of Hillary Clinton. He also revealed internal details about the Trump Organization. Hush payments to Stormy Daniels Trump directed and coordinated payments to adult film actress Stephanie Clifford, alias Stormy Daniels, according to Cohen. The money was initially paid by Cohen from his personal funds to prevent Clifford from going public with a story of a brief 2006 affair with Trump, he said. "He asked me to pay off an adult film star with whom he had an affair, and to lie to his wife about it, which I did," Cohen said. As evidence, Cohen provided lawmakers with the copy of a personal check for $35,000 (€30,800) signed by Trump and dated after the president took office. The payment, according to Cohen, was one of several installments to reimburse him for the $130,000 that he had paid to Clifford's lawyer. Trump also allegedly discussed the payments with Cohen in the Oval Office. Cohen had previously admitted paying the one-time Playboy model Karen McDougal over a similar issue. Trump has repeatedly denied ordering hush-money payments to the women, which could violate US campaign finance laws. WikiLeaks, hacked Democrat emails Commenting on emails obtained from the hack of the Democratic National Committee (DNC) and published by WikiLeaks during the 2016 presidential campaign, Cohen said Trump had had previous knowledge of the release. According to Cohen, Trump learned of the dump from his longtime ally and campaign adviser, Roger Stone. "Mr. Stone told Mr. Trump that he had just gotten off the phone with [WikiLeaks founder] Julian Assange and that Mr. Assange told Mr. Stone that, within a couple of days, there would be a massive dump of emails that would damage Hillary Clinton's campaign. Mr. Trump responded by stating to the effect of 'wouldn't that be great,'" Cohen said. Stone was arrested in January on charges of making false statements, witness tampering and obstructing justice in the Russia probe. He has denied talking to Trump about the WikiLeaks hack. Trump has stated he had "never heard" of WikiLeaks before the DNC hack and dump of emails from his rival Clinton. Over the summer, a security company hired by the Democratic National Convention tells the DNC that they have been successfully infiltrated by hackers for more than year. Two groups, known as Cozy Bear and Fancy Bear, both have links to the Russian government, the Washington Post reports. At the end of July, the FBI launches an investigation into whether or not the Russian government ordered the DNC hack. Kremlin spokesman Dmitry Peskov calls the move "paranoid." On the campaign trail, Republican nominee Donald Trump encourages Russia to "find the 30,000 emails that are missing." In a series of debates with rival Hillary Clinton, Trump casts doubt on Moscow's role in hacks that targeted the DNC and Clinton's campaign manager, John Podesta. Anti-secrecy website WikiLeaks begins releasing slightly compromising emails from Clinton campaign chairman John Podesta. Co-founder Julian Assange defends targeting Clinton, saying Trump's own statements are indictment enough of the Republican nominee. Over a period of months, WikiLeaks consistently denies allegations that its sources are based in Russia. In a rare moment of complete agreement for the two biggest intelligence agencies in the US, both the FBI and CIA come to the conclusion that the Russian government sought to influence the US election by promoting unfavorable coverage of Hillary Clinton. Trump, who has made no secret of his admiration for Russian President Vladimir Putin, calls the intelligence reports "ridiculous." Anti-Clinton voices slam the probe as a distraction meant to discredit the now president-elect. This puts Trump at odds with Republicans in Congress who call for an independent investigation. At the end of December, the Obama administration expels 35 Russian diplomats and shuts down two Russian intelligence compounds as the Kremlin continues to deny having a role in the summer's cyberattacks. President Putin eschews direct retaliation, saying he will wait to see how President-elect Trump's Russia policies play out. Author: Elizabeth Schumacher Russia and Trump's interests in Moscow Cohen previously pleaded guilty for lying to Congress about Trump's alleged plans to build a Trump Tower in Moscow. Trump had claimed he had no business interests in Russia in the runup to the 2016 election. However, Cohen said Trump "knew of and directed" negotiations to build a property in Moscow during the campaign. The plans never materialized. Cohen said he didn't have "direct evidence" that Trump or his aides colluded with Russia to get him elected, but disputed the president's account of a meeting between the president's son, Donald Trump Jr., and a Kremlin-linked lawyer in an attempt to dig up "dirt" on Clinton. While the Trump family alleges the younger Trump acted independently of his father and without informing him, Cohen said the younger Trump "would never set up any meeting of any significance alone — and certainly not without checking with his father." He also said Trump "frequently told me and others that his son Don Jr. had the worst judgment of anyone in the world." Trump's character Cohen described Trump as "cheat" who treated his presidential run as "the greatest infomercial in political history," saying the businessman never believed he would win the Republican nomination or subsequent election. He also called the president "a racist," and said he heard Trump say black people would not vote for him because they were "too stupid." Under questioning, Cohen admitted to paying a tech company to manipulate two online polls, one at the website of the American broadcaster CNBC and the other at the Drudge Report in 2015. This was allegedly done at Trump's direction. Cohen also said he was instructed by Trump to threaten the high school and colleges attended by the president to prevent them from releasing his grades or SAT score, a standardized college admission test. Cohen also claimed Trump directed him to make about 500 threats to various individuals and organizations over the course of 10 years of working for him. The threats involved possible litigation or "an argument with a nasty reporter that is writing an article." Republicans called Cohen a 'pathological liar' and said he was bitter about not being offered a job at the White House More revelations to come Several times in his hourslong testimony, Cohen refused to give details on his dealings with the president, including his last conversation with Trump or a Trump representative. The reason, according to Cohen, is that the matter is still being investigated by a New York court and that he was told not to discuss them. Cohen also said he knows about other illegal acts by Trump, which are still under investigation. He wrapped up his explosive testimony by warning that Trump may not accept a "peaceful transition of power" if he loses his bid for re-election in 2020, saying the president would do anything to win. "Given my experience working for Mr. Trump, I fear that if he loses the election in 2020, that there will never be a peaceful transition of power," he said in a final statement. For years, Michael Cohen described himself as being staunchly loyal to President Trump, going as far as saying that he would "take a bullet" for him. But according to The New York Times, Trump treated Cohen "poorly, with gratuitous insults, dismissive statements and, at least twice, threats of being fired." In February, Cohen (middle) admitted to paying $130,000 (about €112,000) to porn star Stormy Daniels (right) to keep quiet about an affair she had with Trump (right). Prosecutors had been trying to ascertain whether Cohen violated any campaign-finance laws by making the payment ahead of 2016 election. In April, FBI agents raided Cohen's office, apartment and hotel room on a referral from Special Counsel Robert Mueller, who is investigating whether the Trump campaign colluded with Russia in swaying the 2016 presidential election. They took away millions of electronic files from his various devices and reams of documents, including pieces of paper from a shredder. In June, Trump said Cohen was no longer his attorney, adding that he hadn't spoken to him in a long time. Trump's new attorney Rudy Giuliani had said earlier that Cohen was not representing the US president after the FBI raids on his home and office. In July, Cohen's lawyer, Lanny Davis, released a secret audio recording in which Trump was seemingly heard admitting to knowledge of a hush-money payment made to former Playboy model Karen McDougal, who claimed to have had an affair with him. It was Cohen, who had made the recording that Trump said was "perhaps illegal." On Tuesday, Trump's former fixer entered into a plea agreement with federal prosecutors to plead guilty to tax and bank fraud charges and campaign finance violations. Author: Ashutosh Pandey Each evening at 1830 UTC, DW's editors send out a selection of the day's hard news and quality feature journalism. You can sign up to receive it directly here.