Sometimes it makes one flinch when hearing Volkswagen (VW) managers say things like: "Global warming is in full swing and VW is part of the problem." It was said by Ralf Pfitzner, who is responsible for sustainability at the VW Group. "The I.D. will be the group's first car to be produced in a carbon-neutral way," Thomas Ulbrich, member of VW's management board responsible for e-mobility, said at a symposium organized by the company in Dresden. It's not even been four years since the company was plunged into an existential crisis following revelations that it had installed faulty software in its diesel cars to make them appear more environmental friendly. The scandal tarnished the company's reputation and has cost it billions of euros in fines. To date, this has only been dealt with in court in the USA. Courts in Germany have yet to begin hearings on the lawsuits filed against the company. Read more: China is most important battleground for carmakers Herbert Diess, the new boss of the Wolfsburg-based auto giant, has prescribed a "cultural change" for the group. "We are driving the company toward clean mobility," that's Diess' target for the firm's 650,000 employees worldwide. To achieve this, German magazine Der Spiegel reported that the company is also planning to introduce an internal carbon tax, in an effort to create incentives for reducing CO2 emissions. These I.D. series vehicles are still prototypes, but they occupy center stage when it comes to VW's e-mobility strategy Climate neutral by 2050 Volkswagen's goal is to reduce the CO2 emissions of its vehicle fleet to zero by 2050, and the cars are also to be produced in a carbon-neutral manner. The company intends to offset its greenhouse gas emissions by climate protection measures. "If we want to achieve this goal, the changes must begin now," says Christian Senger, head of VW's e-mobility production series. By 2023, VW will have invested €11 billion ($12.4 billion) in the digitization of vehicles and plants as well as in CO2-neutral production right through to its suppliers. Of this amount, €9 billion are direct investments in electric mobility. A first VW plant is currently being rebuilt without interrupting operations: In Zwickau, in the German state of Saxony, where the conventional Golf is still running off the production lines, the I.D. is to be produced starting from the end of this year. It is to become the nucleus of an entire electric family. Zwickau serves as a laboratory: the factory has already been trimmed for energy efficiency in recent years. With an increase in production of three percent over the past eight years, CO2 emissions have been reduced by 66 percent. And that's not all: Liendel Chang, who takes care of the environmental aspects of production processes, said that we "really take a close look at everything," referring to the efficiency of the ventilation and heating of the assembly halls or the compressed air supply to the assembly lines, among other things. Send  Facebook   Twitter   google+   Whatsapp   Tumblr   linkedin   stumble   Digg   reddit   Newsvine Permalink https://p.dw.com/p/3C5yc From Zwickau into the world Zwickau is expected to be the pioneer, and other factories will likely have to quickly follow in its footsteps. They include the plant in Emden on the North Sea coast, where the mid-size car Passat is currently still being produced; the plant in Hanover, where the firm's vans are being made; Mlada Boleslaw in the Czech Republic, home to the sister brand Skoda; and finally two plants in China as well as the US plant in Chattanooga, in the state of Tennessee. At VW, executives point out that 37 percent of the total energy supply for operating the group's plants, numbering more than 120 worldwide, currently comes from renewable sources. Read more: VW planning on nationwide diesel cull through trade-ins But production in VW plants is just one side of the coin. The situation becomes complex if one takes into account the role played by the group's suppliers. And VW has plenty of them: around 40,000 worldwide. To bring about meaningful change, after all, the entire value chain needs to be sustainable, not only in terms of CO2 emissions, but also in terms of compliance with social standards. But that means intervening much more broadly and deeply in complex processes. "Sustainable supply chains will become a 'hygiene factor,'" says Marco Philippi, who's responsible for procurement in the group. The aim is to commit suppliers to sustainability, he underlined. "We will exclude suppliers who do not meet our requirements." VW is investing €1.2 billion in its Zwickau plant Climate protection as a competitive issue Of course this is just an announcement for now. Steel production, for instance, is still an extremely CO2-intensive process. And VW will certainly not be able to part with its steel suppliers. The company faces a similar problem when it comes to the manufacturers of battery cells. VW buys most of these basic battery elements in Poland, where most of the electricity is generated from coal. But VW says its Polish suppliers use green energy for cell production. So there is still a lot to do for VW on its way to carbon-neutral production. But VW wants to become a pioneer, and where the sustainability targets cannot be achieved directly, the group wants to invest in climate protection projects as compensation. To this end, the company counts on the support of Georg Kell, former founder and director of the UN Global Compact — an initiative for sustainable development under the auspices of the United Nations and now spokesman for VW's Sustainability Advisory Board. "Only with the de-carbonization of production will companies have a chance in the future. This will become the central theme of competition," he said. About two weeks after Volkswagen admitted behind closed doors to US environmental regulators that it had installed cheating software in some 11 million of its diesel vehicles worldwide, the Environmental Protection Agency shared that information with the public. It was September 18, 2015. The ensuing crisis would eventually take a few unexpected turns. Volkswagen's then-CEO Martin Winterkorn (above) had little choice but to step down several days after news of the scandal broke. In September, he tendered his resignation, but retained his other posts within the Volkswagen Group. Winterkorn's successor was Matthias Müller. Until taking the reins at VW, Müller had been the chairman at Porsche, a VW subsidiary. Regulators in the US weren't the only ones investigating VW. Authorities in Lower Saxony, the German state in which VW is based, were also scrutinizing the company. On October 8, state prosecutors raided VW's headquarters along with several other corporate locations. On January 4, 2016, the US government filed a lawsuit against VW in Detroit, accusing the German automaker of fraud and violations of American climate protection regulations. The lawsuit sought up to $46 billion for violations of the Clean Air Act. In March, the head of VW in the US, Michael Horn, resigned. In the initial days and weeks after the scandal broke, he was the one US authorities turned to for information. He issued an official apology on behalf of the automaker, asking for the public's forgiveness. On October 25, a US judge approved a final settlement that would have VW pay $15.3 billion. In addition, affected cars would be retrofitted with better, non-deceptive hardware and software, or else VW would buy them back completely from customers. When dieselgate first emerged in 2015, analysts said it was likely other car makers were also cheating tests. But it wasn't until 2017 that other companies were targeted in probes. In July, German authorities launched investigations into luxury car makers Porsche and Daimler for allegedly cheating emissions tests. Others, such as Audi and Chrysler, have also been hit by similar allegations. Despite dieselgate, VW has managed to keep the emissions scandal from utterly tarnishing its image. According to several polls, between 55 to 67 percent of Germans continue to trust the automaker. In the US, polls show that roughly 50 percent still believe the German company produces worthwhile vehicles. In late January, however, VW suffered another heavy blow over reports that the company experimented on monkeys and made the animals inhale diesel fumes. To make matters worse, a separate experiment that had humans inhale relatively harmless nitrogen dioxide was revealed at the same time. Some media wrongly interpreted this to mean humans were also inhaling toxic fumes. Author: Dirk Kaufmann