There was a time, and it's really not long ago at all, when Bayern Munich facing a Champions League knockout match without Arjen Robben, Franck Ribery, Thomas Müller and Jerome Boateng would have struck an unfamiliar but nagging note of angst among their traveling support. While that particular emotion may have become more familiar this season, the pangs of player absence became mere murmurs on a cold Tuesday night at Anfield. The core of the German champions' next generation strengthened around those they will eventually replace in a performance of discipline, belief and unity that impressed Niko Kovac in his first Champions League knockout tie. "The structure that we had in the game made it hard even for Liverpool to score," he said after the scoreless draw. "We achieved our goal. We knew who we were playing and that they have fast players but we defended well and were very compact." Despite the late withdrawal of Leon Goretzka (24), the side Kovac picked had an average age more than two years younger than that which started his first Champions League match against Benfica last September (29 vs. 26.7). Niko Kovac secured a draw in his first Champions League knockout game Kovac admitted that elements of his team selection were enforced but had proved a happy accident as the maturity and composure with which some of his younger players handled a raucous atmosphere offered hope, not just for this tie but for the future of this team. Evolution not revolution Sometimes new eras start with a bang, with a show of daring and vigor. This wasn't such an occasion, with Kovac's men relying on the sort of backs-to-the-wall, defiant performance they are used to inspiring in opponents. But it feels like it could be significant all the same. Liverpool hadn't lost a European game at Anfield for 19 matches and hadn't failed to score in any match since early November but every time they looked like extending that run, a Bayern foot, head, or knee got in the way. "We made our life a bit difficult with the last pass," Jürgen Klopp said after the game. "There were about 10 situations, either on the counter or around the box, when we gave it away or shot at their legs." The German boss was not wrong and went on to acknowledge that but his side's frustrations were partly as result of Bayern's perspiration and also a surprisingly conservative approach from his opposite number. Bayern Munich's players salute the travelling fans As the pressure ramped up in the final 10 minutes, even Robert Lewandowski and substitute Franck Ribery, both of whom have had team ethic questioned at times, threw themselves to ground to clear loose balls on the edge of their own box. The old guard were leading by example. Javi Martinez, probably the game's standout performer, rolled back the years with a performance of bite, anticipation and composure while the big occasion seemed to bring the best out of Mats Hummels. Keeping the crowd quiet Crucially, though, the new core of the next Bayern team, led on Wednesday by the ever-lively Serge Gnabry and the increasingly dependable Niklas Süle, were ready and able to play supporting roles. Encouraging as it was, this was by no means a vintage Bayern performance and neither is it one that solves the flaws that have held them back this term. The visitors weren't quite capable of taking advantage of the early indecision of Alisson and Fabinho, whose performance out of position went from shaky to secure as Bayern struggled to get out of their own half and turn the tide. But the Bundesliga side did find a way to keep alive, a quality that becomes ever more important as winter turns to spring. The job, of course, is far from done, with the return leg in three weeks still finely balanced. But this was a display to rouse Bayern's future core and one to prove there's life in a few of the old dogs yet, though those who missed such a display may well be watching from the bench on March 13. The evolution has truly begun, and it won't have room for too many passengers. Bayern Munich and Liverpool have a rich tradition in the European Cup, both having lifted the famous trophy on five occasions. Liverpool, beaten finalists last season, currently sit on top of the English Premier League while Bayern, who started the season sluggishly, are now back in form and sit second in the Bundesliga table, and are keeping up the pressure on Borussia Dortmund. Bayern Munich have had a better record than Liverpool in the Champions League over the last decade or so. The Bavarians have only failed to reach the semifinals once in the last seven years and have only failed to reach the quarterfinals twice in the last 12. As for Liverpool, last season's final appearance was their first since 2007. The last time Liverpool and Bayern played in a competitive match was in the Super Cup in 2001 with Liverpool, winners of that year's UEFA Cup, emerging 3-2 winners over the Champions League holders. The two clubs have only met once before in the European Cup, Liverpool progressing on away goals in the semifinal en route to their third title in 1981. The last time Jürgen Klopp faced Bayern Munich in the Champions League was in the 2013 final at Wembley when his Borussia Dortmund team lost 2-1 to a late Arjen Robben goal. The Bavarians were Klopp's main rivals during his seven years as BVB coach, in which he won two Bundesliga titles and one German Cup. The fact that Liverpool are top of the Premier League is evidence of his continued success. Niko Kovac may be a relatively inexperienced coach, this being his first season of Champions League football, but he has years of experience to call upon in his Bayern Munich side. Arjen Robben (right) may be out injured but Thomas Müller, Robert Lewandowski and Franck Ribery (left to right) have over 250 Champions League appearances between them. All eyes will be on Mohammed Salah at Anfield. The Egyptian striker has scored 20 goals in all competitions for Liverpool this season and his pace, skill and sharp left foot will pose a genuine threat to Bayern's defense, which has looked vulnerable on the counterattack in the Bundesliga in recent weeks. With Bayern's back line looking shaky, even more responsibility falls upon goalkeeper and captain Manuel Neuer. The Germany captain has been nursing a thumb injury but he was between the sticks in Augsburg on the weekend. He now looks forward to making his first ever appearance at Anfield. Liverpool's famous Anfield home, first opened in 1884, may not be the cauldron it once was but the home fans are still capable of pumping up the volume on the big occasions - and a visit by Bayern Munich is one of the biggest. After being expanded in 2016, Anfield now seats 54,074 fans, making it the sixth biggest stadium in England. The second leg of the tie is to be played at the Allianz Arena, Bayern's 75,000 capacity home. Having only opened its doors in 2002, it can't boast the history that Anfield has. Still, Bayern have already enjoyed some big moments in their relatively new home. Here they celebrate winning the 2013 Bundesliga title Two weeks later they beat Dortmund to win the Champions League final at Wembley. Author: Bormani Jacob