Augsburg 2-3 Bayern Munich (Goretzka og 1', Ji 23' — Coman 17', 45'+3, Alaba 53') Bayern Munich should be concerned ahead of their heavyweight Champions League showdown with Liverpool. Yes, Bayern got three points in Augsburg, and yes, they closed the gap to leaders Borussia Dortmund to two points, but Friday proved that Bayern's weaknesses outstrip its assets by a considerable margin. Friday night's hosts, Augsburg, went into this game having lost eight of their previous nine Bundesliga games. That figure is now nine in ten, yet Bayern's slapdash defending made them look like an attacking force to be reckoned with. Leon Goretzka set Augsburg moving after just 13 seconds when he inadvertently steered the ball into his own net, raising hopes of a rare Augsburg win against their Bavarian neighbors. Bayern leveled through Kingsley Coman but opened the door for Augsburg again when Philipp Max crossed for Ji Dong-won, who received the ball after a failed clearance by Niklas Süle. Ji did the rest. Augsburg took their chances in clinical fashion and deserved their lead, but with the greatest respect to the Bundesliga strugglers, once can only imagine what Sadio Mane, Roberto Firmino and Mohamed Salah will do to this defense. Jürgen Klopp must be licking his lips. Manuel Neuer despairs as Bayern go 2-1 down in Augsburg. Coman leveled with the final kick of the first half and David Alaba struck what proved the winner with the game's only moment of real quality, finding the bottom corner with a beautiful strike after he was spotted by Coman. Those two players have proved consistently in recent weeks during Bayern's revival as a title contender that they are Bayern's key goal threats, along with Serge Gnabry. Bayern have found ways to win games like this even when they're off the pace, largely down to the individual sum of their parts. Alaba proving the savior on this occasion. But for Bayern to overcome the slick machine that is Klopp's Liverpool, they need a new defense. Mats Hummels and Niklas Süle are too slow and too cumbersome to handle any team with pace and power, as we saw when Bayern slumped to defeat in Der Klassiker. Unfortunately for Bayern, Liverpool have one of the best attacking trios in Europe and the scouting reports being sent back to Anfield on Friday night will report the weaknesses that everyone is aware of but no one seems willing to address. On this evidence, it could be a long night for Niko Kovac's men on Tuesday. Bayern Munich moved to within two points of Borussia Dortmund at the top of the Bundesliga with a comeback win in Augsburg. Leon Goretzka scored an own goal after 13 seconds, and Bayern had to twice fight back through Kingsley Coman goals to go in level at the break. David Alaba provided the game's only moment of quality early in the second half, collecting Coman's pass and striking a fine winner. Nothing but a win will do for Dortmund, who need to bounce back after their 3-0 thumping at the hands of Tottenham Hotspur in the Champions League. Dortmund saw their Bundesliga lead cut to just two points following Bayern's win in Augsburg, and need to stop the rot after a run of four winless games. Nuremberg are rooted to the bottom of the league, and a shock win could see them move up a place. One of the key games of the weekend sees fifth-place Eintracht Frankfurt take on third-placed Borussia Mönchengladbach. Frankfurt have one of the most potent attacks in the league but are without a win in the league for three games, stretching back almost a month. Gladbach are looking to get back on track after their three-game winning run was abrubtly ended by Hertha Berlin.