Venezuela's Minister of Foreign Affairs, Jorge Arreaza, was visibly angry. "It is outrageous and irresponsible that the [foreign] media send journalists without fulfilling the minimum conditions required by Venezuelan law, then construct a media scandal out of it," he said. "This is another aspect of the media campaign against our country," he tweeted on January 31. Read more: EU foreign policy has failed Venezuela in a crucial time What happened? The world is currently focused on the ongoing power struggle in Venezuela between President Nicolas Maduro and opposition leader Juan Guaido. Journalists from across the globe are traveling to the country to report on the crisis. In the past few days, the Venezuelan authorities have arrested several foreign journalists who didn't have the required press visas; they only had ordinary ones, which can be obtained much faster and with less bureaucracy. Incalculable risk On January 30, three journalists from the Spanish news agency EFE were arrested by the Venezuelan secret service, SEBIN. An employee at the EFE office in Caracas who didn't want to be named confirmed to DW that his three colleagues had entered the country without journalist visas. The journalists were ultimately released. Two French journalists from the television station TF1, meanwhile, were arrested on January 29 and released two days later. Foreign Minister Arreaza says there is a 'media campaign' against Venezuela Other journalists have not been so lucky and have spent considerably longer in custody. The German journalist Billy Six was arrested last November. He also entered Venezuela without a journalist visa. The Venezuelan authorities have accused Six of espionage, rebellion and violating security zones. Officials from the German embassy in Caracas were unable to visit him in prison before January 9. Read more: Venezuela's political crisis The Venezuelan authorities are insisting on respect for law and order. However, other countries in the past have abused the special visa requirement for journalists in order to prevent unfavorable reporting. Bureaucratic difficulties DW's editor-in-chief, Ines Pohl, commented: "In confusing conflicts like the current one in Venezuela, it's especially important for independent journalists to be able to report from the field — both for the people in the country itself, and also for an international audience. Anyone who prevents colleagues from doing their job must have something to hide." Read more: Maduro's oil leverage drips away When asked about information on obtaining a journalist visa in Venezuela, an employee at the country's embassy in Berlin responded: "This can only be done via the website of the Ministry of Communications. But I'm afraid the website has been inaccessible for several days now." Journalists from around the world have come to Venezuela to report Even if it could be accessed, a proper accreditation would likely take 30 days — far too long to be able to report on the ground about current developments in the country. And so, as is often the case when working in crisis zones, foreign journalists are faced with a dilemma. On the one hand, they must respect entry visa regulations, which are often arbitrarily designed to hinder journalistic work. On the other hand, they want to report on what is happening as quickly as possible, get the latest information and be in a position to corroborate it. An instrument of control Reporters Without Borders has criticized an alarming increase in censorship in Venezuela in the wake of the current government crisis. According to a survey by the Institute for Press and Society in Venezuela (IPYS), there were 45 attacks on journalists in the country between January 1 and 28 of this year. These incidents include arbitrary arrests, confiscation of equipment, and police and military violence. Read more: Turkey and Venezuela: The rise of a new alliance? "In certain countries, the journalist visa is often misused as an instrument of control," Christian Mihr, the managing director of Reporters Without Borders Germany, told DW. "In the interests of press freedom, it would be welcomed if the Venezuelan foreign minister were to get upset about this." In March 2017, violent protests erupted across the country in response to a Supreme Court decision to strip the legislative branch of its powers. Amid an international outcry, President Nicolas Maduro reversed the decision, but it was too late. Thousands continued to take to the streets, calling for new elections. More than 100 people were killed in clashes with security forces. The violence added to the ongoing economic and political crisis in Venezuela. Many Venezuelans spend more than 30 hours a week waiting in lines to shop, and are often confronted with empty shelves when they finally enter a store. President Maduro blames the crisis on US price speculation. The opposition, however, accuses the Socialist government of economic mismanagement. The crisis has even affected health care in the oil-rich nation. Venezuelans often head to Colombia to collect medical supplies to send home, as seen in this picture. Hospitals across Venezuela have compared conditions to those seen only in war zones. As patient deaths rise, health officials have sounded the alarm on the rise of malaria and dengue fever. By July 2017, Venezuela's pro-government Constituent Assembly was established. For observers, it had all the hallmarks of a power grab. The new body adopted the authority to pass legislation on a range of issues, effectively taking away the powers of Venezuela's elected congress, which was under the opposition's control. The move drew wide international condemnation. In response to the political crisis, the United States and European Union imposed a series of sanctions against ruling officials. The US blacklisted members of the Constituent Assembly and froze all of Maduro's assets that are subject to US jurisdiction. The EU banned arms sales to the country. In October 2017, Venezuela held two votes: regional elections and elections for governors, which were long overdue. The opposition boycotted the vote, but then split, as some candidates and small parties chose to participate. This caused a deep rift within Maduro's opponents. The government went on to sweep the vote, which detractors say was unfair and heavily favored the regime. In November 2017, the oil-rich, cash-poor nation faced its day of reckoning. Credit ratings agencies declared Venezuela and its state-run oil company in "selective default." But Russia offered to restructure the South American country's debt to ensure Caracas pays its other creditors. US and EU sanctions, however, limited the chance of an agreement. The National Assembly announced in January 2018 that it would grant Maduro's call for snap presidential elections. The electoral authority, CNE, held the elections on May 20. The EU, the US and 14 Latin American nations warned that they would not recognize the results. The mainstream MUD opposition alliance boycotted the vote, leaving only one possible outcome. Maduro was re-elected to a second six-year term with about 68 percent of the vote. Turnout was only 46 percent, according to electoral authorities. However, the MUD opposition alliance put turnout at less than 30 percent. The Organization of American States (OAS) called the elections neither free nor fair. But weeks into the new year, the situation took a drastic turn. On January 23, 2019, parliament president Juan Guaido declared himself interim president of Venezuela — a move that was quickly recognized by US President Donald Trump. Maduro called it a US-backed "coup." Days later, the US sanctioned Venezuela's state oil firm, while Guaido staked his claim on the country's foreign assets.