DW: Your company, neotiv, has developed an app to research neurodegenerative diseases in their early stages. You're also involved with the German Center for Neurodegenerative Diseases (DZNE). What's the aim of your app, and how does it work? Professor Emrah Düzel: The aim is to improve the prevention of Alzheimer's disease in the future — that's our global aim. And one of the major hurdles there is that it's very difficult to diagnose, track, and monitor the disease. That makes it very difficult to recognize the early stages of the disease and start prevention in time. The app is designed to track the cognitive performance of the participants — Alzheimer's patients and a control group — over a long period of time. Participants also have to answer questionnaires. And you're looking specifically at getting people, "citizen scientists" if you like, to track their cognitive performance, even when they've had a bad night's sleep, or they've got the flu. Why? Well, first, we want [the app] to become a medical device at some point, one that has a strong basis in science, so that's why we have these ties to the German Center for Neurodegenerative Diseases. Then we also want to reach out to the public to inform and empower citizens, so that they know about the early aspects of Alzheimer's. And we want to empower science. One of the hardest aspects of Alzheimer's research is understanding the impact of intermittent health conditions on the main symptom of the disease, which is memory impairment. There are so many intermittent and unpredictable health events that it's hard for science to know their effect. But you can't just have people come into a clinic when they've got flu. Read more: Like, yesterday: Drugs and dementia discovered early Send  Facebook   Twitter   google+   Whatsapp   Tumblr   linkedin   stumble   Digg   reddit   Newsvine Permalink https://p.dw.com/p/2wui8 How does your app compare to traditional cognitive performance tests, pen-and-paper tests, which, we've learnt, have issues, such as cultural biases or so-called learning effects, where if you know the test, you'll know how to answer, and that can skew the results? Those existing tests were designed 30 or 40 years ago at a time when we didn't really know how the brain works. But now we have a very clear idea of where the disease starts in the brain and how it progresses. So we can design tests in such a way that they first address the brain areas that are affected initially, and then consider how the disease might progress. And that's what we've done. We've also designed the tests so that they can be used in many different countries, so that they don't depend on a [person's language skills]. It's interesting to note that your project is not just German but European, with some of your team based in the UK. And I raise that fact because there's another company in the UK I've spoken to called Cognetivity — as you may be aware — who are also developing an app to track cognitive performance over many years before a full-blown memory loss happens. And their view is that a lot of the early symptoms arise in the visual cortex. Is that how you see it too? The visual cortex is certainly one of the areas that are affected. But I'd say we have a more detailed understanding about the networks that are affected. We use very specific stimuli — there are objects and scene stimuli, which target different areas of the visual memory system. They also target different processes, such as separating similar information, or completing missing information [in an image]. These are different processes that are affected at different stages of the disease. Read more: 'Sharing the burden': German, US scientists join forces to slow brain's aging Send  Facebook   Twitter   google+   Whatsapp   Tumblr   linkedin   stumble   Digg   reddit   Newsvine Permalink https://p.dw.com/p/2nKOZ So let me get this right: Cognetivity's app is also based on visual stimuli, on identifying particular images, such as animals, and doing that at speed. But you're saying that yours is a more complex approach. Is that correct? Yes, that's correct. And our tests are validated with actual Alzheimer's patients, so we think we'll be able to see how their performance in a test relates to actual Alzheimer changes in the brain. The idea is that our app will give general practitioners (GPs) and other health professionals, and scientists, a probability as to whether a person has a form of Alzheimer's in their brain. People will surely gravitate to your app and others like it, including Cognetivity, in a hope to self-diagnose. And I know you've said before that Neotiv is not a self-diagnosis tool. But how should science and society manage that urge? Ultimately, these conditions require people who not only know the science, but also know the patients. Well, right now, we're using citizen scientists, but we're not telling them anything about their potential state. So they're contributing to science, but we're not [diagnosing] them. And in the near future we see our app being used by GPs. At some point, some form of self-diagnosis could come into play, because not everybody has the time to go to a GP, but that will take time. Some apps offer this already, but I find it problematic, because the first use and assessment of such an app should be done together with a GP. Professor Emrah Düzel is a neurologist at the University of Magdeburg, and a co-founder and Chief Medical Officer at neotiv. He is also a spokesperson for the German Center for Neurodegenerative Diseases (DZNE). Knut was born in 2006 in the Berlin Zoo. The cuddly pup quickly captured the hearts of thousands, drawing crowds to the zoo and becoming world famous. In 2011, when Knut was four years old, the fan community was shocked when the polar bear suffered an epileptic attack, fell into a water ditch and drowned. What made Knut's death even more tragic was that his zookeeper Thomas Dörflein, who had nursed Knut from a puppy into polar bear adolescence, also suddenly died of a heart attack in 2008. At that time Dörflein's fluffy foster child was two years old, and not quite so cuddly anymore. Together with Knut, Dörflein had also become a celebrity. Initially, there was much speculation as to what might have triggered the attack: Was it Knut's mourning over the death of his foster-parent? Was he stressed out after being mobbed by other adolescent polar bears? The Leibniz Institute for the Research of Zoo and Wild Animals (IZW) investigated the circumstances and determined Knut probably contracted an infection that developed into encephalitis. However, researchers were not fully satisfied with their conclusion, and the real cause of the disease remained in the dark - until now. Finally, the speculations have come to an end: In an article in the journal "Scientific Reports," published on August 27th 2015, researchers revealed Knut had an autoimmune disease. The paper reveals a new discovery: A disease called "anti-NMDA-receptor encephalitis," which until now was thought to only affect humans. This is the first proof that also animals can suffer from a version of the same disease. The research as made possible through cooperation between the IZW and the German Center for Neurodegenerative Diseases (DZNE). "The defense system of the body goes out of control. It starts producing antibodies which turn against the body's own nerve cells rather than fighting infections," DZNE scientist Harald Prüß explains. The possible symptoms of anti-NMDA-receptor encephalitis include epileptic attacks, hallucinations and dementia. The mechanism was discovered in humans just a few years ago. That's why IZW researcher Alex Greenwood considers these new findings "pretty remarkable." The treatment for humans could now be adapted for zoo animals. "Autoimmune diseases of the nervous system could be more common among humans and animals than we have previously thought," Greenwood suggests. It is possible that inflammations triggered by an autoimmune response are often overlooked when doctors are treating people with psychoses or lack of memory. In the future, routine tests could be done to get the diagnosis right. Author: Hannah Fuchs/fs