Metropolitan Epiphanius I was enthroned in Kyiv Sunday as head of the Ukrainian Orthodox Church, two months after its independence - known as "Tomos" - was recognized by the Orthodox world's Istanbul-based Patriarch Batholomew I. The inauguration, broadcast on Ukrainian television, was described by Poroshenko as the "completion" of the new church formation he has spearheaded in recent months. Read more:Ukraine and Russia - more conflict ahead? Sunday's rituals in Kyiv's Saint Sophia Cathedral Sunday,was performed by two Ukrainian bishops and Paris' Metropolitan Emmanuel. Absent were delegations from "almost all" other [foreign] Orthodox churches, reported Germany's Catholic news agency KNA. Parallel existences The move leaves clergy and believers in Ukraine to choose between the new Ukrainian church (which unites two formerly schismatic entities) and the Moscow-backed church which historically maintained property in Ukraine. Ukraine's Poroshenko (right) pushed for the new church In mid-January, Ukraine's parliament adopted a bill on procedures for parishes to decide on how to handle transfers of church property, including rentals to estranged Russian-affiliated parishioners. On passage, Poroshenko said it would prevent "bloodshed." Tymoshenko ahead Opinion surveys consistently put former prime minister Yulia Tymoshenko, as front-runner for Ukraine's March 31 presidential election, ahead of Poroshenko. He was elected in 2014 on promises to shut down the Russia-backed conflict. Both candidates favor Ukrainian bids - opposed by Russia - to join the European Union and NATO. Tymoshenko, however, accuses Poroshenko of ignoring corruption during warfare between Kyiv and Russian-backed rebels in eastern Ukraine. Epiphanius, 40, who was elected by fellow bishops in December had previously helped organize humanitarian aid for Kyiv's army in its struggle against separatists. Send  Facebook   Twitter   google+   Whatsapp   Tumblr   linkedin   stumble   Digg   reddit   Newsvine Permalink https://p.dw.com/p/3AL7w Moscow fury over accord Moscow reacted furiously in early November when an initial independence accord was signed by Poroshenko and Batholomew I in Istanbul, the former Constantinople, which is also seen as the home of Orthodoxy's worldwide Ecumenical Patriarchy. The Russian Orthodox Church last year broke ties with the Istanbul-based Ecumenical Patriarchate headed by Batholomew, who in early January formally handed over the Tomos, enshrining church independence to Epiphanius I. Last Thursday, Russian President Vladimir Putin accused the Ukrainian government of flagrantly meddling in Orthodoxy in Ukraine. He asserted that the split was rooted in "the struggle for power" and provoked "animosity and intolerance," warning that Russia reserved the "right to react and will do everything to protect human rights, including freedom of conscience." Moscow's Patriarch Kyrill I said he still hoped to meet in Kyiv with other bishops who he said were still defending "canonized Orthodox Christianity." Russian President Vladimir Putin visits a children's hospice on Orthodox Christmas Eve on January 6 in St. Petersburg. Russia is the world's largest predominantly Orthodox country, followed by Ukraine. A lot of holiday traditions are still connected to New Year's Eve on December 31, however, including the exchanging of gifts. People attend a service on Orthodox Christmas Eve at the Andrew the Apostle Cathedral in Vladivostok, Russia. The Orthodox Church calendar is based on the Julian calendar. The modern calendar used in most parts of the world dates back to 1582, when Pope Gregory XIII consulted astronomers and replaced the Julian system with the Gregorian calendar to reduce annual variation in the date of Easter. Serbian Patriarch Irinej is the spiritual leader of the Serbian Orthodox Church. Here, he attends a ceremonial burning of dried oak branches, a tradition on Orthodox Christmas Eve, in front of the Church of St. Sava in Belgrade, Serbia. The majority of Serbs are followers of the Serbian Orthodox Church. Orthodox Christians in Bosnia and Herzegovina also belong to the Serbian Orthodox Church. Here, Bosnian Orthodox priest Marko Males leads a mass in the Church of the Holy Mother of God in Zenica. Many Orthodox Christians celebrate mass on Christmas Eve at the Church of the Nativity in the West Bank town of Bethlehem. The church, built on the site where Jesus Christ is believed to have been born, is administered jointly by the Greek Orthodox, Roman Catholic, Armenian Apostolic, and Syriac Orthodox churches. Author: Keith Walker Complex Orthodoxy The global Orthodox population number up to 300 million persons, grouped within about 350 churches, according to the Ecumenical Council of Churches based in Geneva. About 70 percent of Ukrainians are Orthodox.About one million Orthodox Christians live in Germany. ipj/ng (AP, AFP, epd, Reuters, KNA)