Four trucks loaded with humanitarian aid and carrying dozens of volunteers tried to force their way across the Venezuelan border from Colombia on Saturday, TV images showed. The trucks tried to cross the Tienditas bridge, separating the Colombian town of Cucuta from Urena in Venezuela, to fulfill a promise by opposition leader Juan Guaido to bring fresh supplies to the crisis-ravaged country. But instead, they found themselves under tear gas attack as volunteers attempted to unload the trucks. 'Trucks torched' Eyewitnesses told The Associated Press that at least one truck went up in flames on the nearby Francisco de Paula Santander bridge, which also links the two towns, prompting locals to rescue boxes of emergency food and medicine. Local resident, Fernando Flore, said national guardsmen acting under orders from Maduro had torched the trucks once they crossed into Venezuelan territory. Security forces clashed with local residents in Urena, carrying out orders to uphold President Nicolas Maduro's border blockade. Members of the National Guard fired rubber bullets and tear gas at opposition supporters who were trying to remove a barricade on a border bridge that was blocking the aid deliveries. The AFP news agency said canisters were fired at demonstrators at several other points on the Colombia border where a total of 14 trucks had assembled. Later on Saturday, Maduro severed diplomatic relations with Colombia over its backing for Guaido, his rival, who crossed into the neighboring country for the handover of the aid. Two other trucks, meanwhile, remained stuck at Venezuela's border with Brazil, despite reports by opposition leaders that they had managed to break through a police blockade and enter the country. Carrying eight tons of emergency aid, the trucks had left Boa Vista in Brazil en route to the border earlier in the day, escorted by Brazilian police, organizers said. Read more: Rival concerts on Colombia-Venezuela border herald aid convoy attempt Also on Saturday, 13 members of Venezuela's security forces — National Guard troops and police officers — deserted their posts during the clashes and crossed the border into Colombia, according to the Colombian migration authority. Army Major Hugo Parra Martinez, meanwhile, became the fifth member of the armed forces to abandon Maduro's socialist government. Footage appeared on social media showing him speaking through a megaphone, saying that he's ready to join the struggle for Venezuela's freedom and accept Guaido's offer of amnesty. Maduro secures border Acting President Nicolas Maduro ordered the closure of three border bridges to Colombia late on Friday amid a dispute with 
Guaido  about letting in aid. Send  Facebook   Twitter   google+   Whatsapp   Tumblr   linkedin   stumble   Digg   reddit   Newsvine Permalink https://p.dw.com/p/3Dpte Border showdown Maduro denies there are significant food and medicine shortages in Venezuela and has accused the United States of using its aid donations, which account for most of the supplies on the Colombian side of the border, as a cover for military intervention. Read more: Venezuela's health care crisis: Hospitals have 'nothing left' The Venezuelan president had already ordered the closure of the border to Brazil and an end to air and sea travel to the Dutch Caribbean island of Curacao earlier this week. Having crossed into Colombia early on Saturday, Guaido briefly boarded one of the trucks as they set off towards the border, carrying 600 tons of nutritional supplements, medicine, and hygiene products into the poverty-stricken country. Head of the opposition-controlled National Assembly, Guaido declared himself president in January. Fifty countries, including Germany, have backed him. Russia, China and Turkey have voiced support for Maduro. Send  Facebook   Twitter   google+   Whatsapp   Tumblr   linkedin   stumble   Digg   reddit   Newsvine Permalink https://p.dw.com/p/3DDXT mm, amp/jm (AFP, AP, dpa) Every evening at 1830 UTC, DW's editors send out a selection of the day's hard news and quality feature journalism. You can sign up to receive it directly here.