Nigerian President Muhammadu Buhari on Wednesday said it was "obvious" that the presidential election was "free and fair" as he called on his supporters "not to gloat or humiliate the opposition." His losing opponent, Atiku Abubakar, a billionaire former vice president who campaigned to "make Nigeria work again," rejected what he called a "sham election" and said he would challenge the results in court. "On election day, we saw the implementation of grand theft of the people's will," he added. The election results: Read more: Nigeria Election: Bad losers, bad winners Send  Facebook   Twitter   google+   Whatsapp   Tumblr   linkedin   stumble   Digg   reddit   Newsvine Permalink https://p.dw.com/p/3ED9q No congratulatory call Abubakar said that if the vote had been fair, he would have called the president to concede immediately. Instead he alleged malpractice in many of Nigeria's 36 states. "If I had lost in a free and fair election, I would have called the victor within seconds of my being aware of his victory to offer not just my congratulations, but my services to help unite Nigeria by being a bridge between the north and the south," he said in a statement. Losing challenger Atiku Abubakar "In 2019, it is sad to see those who trampled on democracy thumping down their noses on the Nigerian people," Atiku said. "We will not allow democracy to be emasculated. I hope and pray Nigerians will someday summon the courage to defend democracy." The Supreme Court of Nigeria has never overturned a presidential election. Buhari himself lodged appeals in 2003, 2007 and 2011 but lost on all three occasions. Saturday's election had been scheduled for the weekend before, but was stopped at the last minute. In the intervening week, 47 people were killed, according to the monitoring organization The Nigeria Civil Society Situation Room, which expressed concern over the conduct of the election. Send  Facebook   Twitter   google+   Whatsapp   Tumblr   linkedin   stumble   Digg   reddit   Newsvine Permalink https://p.dw.com/p/3E68E jm/amp (Reuters, AFP, AP) Each evening at 1830 UTC, DW's editors send out a selection of the day's hard news and quality feature journalism. You can sign up to receive it directly here. 