There is a "good" and a "bad" China, I read the other day in an article. The "good" China, the author argued, is southeast of an imaginary diagonal line across the country, while "bad" China is to the northwest of it. The southeastern region prospers and is admired worldwide, this is where the economically significant cities are, where the majority of the population lives and where huge infrastructure projects have created cities for millions of people in regions that were empty 30 years go. Unlike the northwest, which is home to the vast country's political crisis areas: Inner Mongolia, Tibet and Xinjiang province. Read more: Pakistani husbands distressed as Uighur wives face Chinese crackdown People in Europe and the United States tend to focus on southern China, which has achieved considerable success by adapting a more US-style economic model. Thanks to former leader Deng Xiaoping, whose reforms began exactly 40 years ago, the country has changed from a backward Maoist state that didn't think twice about starving entire regions to a modern nation. End to Deng reforms Under President Xi Jinping, however, what constitutes "bad China" has gained the upper hand. He has begun to reverse Deng's economic reforms, thus putting the Chinese economy on a dangerous path, and he has completely eliminated the political freedoms that his predecessors had allowed bit by bit. Academic and DW columnist Alexander Görlach The people who live in China's northwest are particularly hard hit — including those living in Tibet and Xinjiang. Their cultures are being streamlined, assimilated, and cultural independence is suppressed, like it was in Franco's Spain, where the Basques were forbidden to speak their language. For decades, the Tibetans have seen their culture destroyed and their temples burned. The Uighurs in Xinjiang, the majority of whom are Muslim, are next. Huge internment camps have been set up — satellite images prove their existence. China's leadership denies the images and calls them education camps. An estimated 1 million people are imprisoned because of their faith and ethnicity. Xinjiang is about more than state-imposed atheism: It is about the complete oppression of another ethnic group and its culture. Germany must react The moment has come for the world to shift its focus from "good" to "bad" China. Despite the attraction the giant market of the People's Republic holds for Western countries, the Chinese leadership's approach in Xinjiang crosses every line regarding human rights. Read more: What does China want to achieve by 'modifying' Islam? How far is the leap from internment camp to destruction? We Germans know how short a jump that can be. A regime that begins by imprisoning and "re-educating" people based on their attributes is so degenerate that eliminating these people soon appears to them to be an administrative, logical act. Xi has put his country on the wrong path, the "bad" path. Due to Germany's past, the German government in particular must react unequivocally to the alarming reports from China. It is important to distinguish between the Chinese leadership and the Chinese people. There is reason to assume that many do not even know what is happening in Xinjiang. Xi is omnipresent and, unlike Deng, had himself declared president for life. Send  Facebook   Twitter   google+   Whatsapp   Tumblr   linkedin   stumble   Digg   reddit   Newsvine Permalink https://p.dw.com/p/37mN1 Cooperate with the US Under Xi , China is becoming increasingly isolated and the country's handling of the Uighurs has exacerbated the situation. At the same time, the leadership is intensifying its threats against Taiwan and Hong Kong, which was technically granted democratic rights. The fact that Xi has powerful enemies who do not want to accept this course became clear in the framework of celebrations marking the 40th anniversary of Deng's reforms, when one of the reformer's grandsons reminded the public that his grandfather worked with the US. He argued that every country that has been involved with the Americans has always been better off than before. That was unmistakably critical of Xi, and a remark only someone with such a prominent family name can dare make in China. Read more: Divided Uighur families struggle to build new lives in Turkey The message from abroad must be all the more clear: The Uighurs must not be left alone in this threatening situation. The international community can only cooperate with "good" China. Alexander Görlach is a senior research associate at the Institute on Religion and International Studies at the University of Cambridge as well as senior fellow at the Carnegie Council for Ethics in International Affairs and honorary professor for ethics and theology at the University of Lüneburg. He has also held a number of scholarly and advisory positions at Harvard University. He holds PhDs in comparative religion and linguistics and is a guest columnist for several publications including Deutsche Welle, The New York Times, Swiss daily Neue Zürcher Zeitung and business magazine Wirtschaftswoche.