France recalled Ambassador Christian Masset for consultations on Thursday after a series of "provocations" from Italian political leaders, France's Foreign Ministry said. "France has been, for several months, the target of repeated, baseless attacks and outrageous statements," the ministry said in a statement. "This is without precedent since the end of World War II." On Tuesday, Italian Deputy Prime Minister Luigi Di Maio had traveled to Paris to meet members of the "yellow vest" protest movement. "The latest interference is an additional and unacceptable provocation," the French ministry said, describing the remarks as a bid to win votes in the European elections in May. "Having disagreements is one thing, but manipulating the relationship for electoral aims is another." Di Maio takes on France Italy's government, composed of Di Maio's anti-establishment Five-Star Movement and the anti-immigrant League party, has butted heads with France on issues from immigration to African policy. Luigi Di Maio in Rome France's Foreign Ministry summoned Italy's ambassador last month after Di Maio had accused France of causing people to migrate to Europe from Africa. He said that France had "never stopped colonizing" African nations and called for EU sanctions against France for its policies which impoverished Africa. Di Maio criticized the French government for protecting the elite, and said "a new Europe is being born of the 'yellow vests', of movements, of direct democracy." Salvini and migrants Italy has two deputy premiers. Matteo Salvini heads the right-wing Lega (League) party and is also interior minister and deputy prime minister. He said the Italian government did not want "to argue with anyone, we are not interested in polemics," according to a press statement on Thursday. Matteo Salvini in parliament While happy to meet President Emmanuel Macron for talks, Salvini repeated his demand that French police stop pushing migrants back into Italy. He has also made his opinion of Macron clear: "I hope the French will be able to free themselves of a terrible president," Salvini said in a Facebook video last month. "The opportunity will come on May 26 (the European elections) when finally the French people will be able to take back control of their future, destiny, (and) pride, which are poorly represented by a character like Macron," he said. Last year, Macron criticized Italy for closing its ports to a charity-operated migrant rescue boat. Since his election in May 2016, French President Emmanuel Macron's popularity has fallen steadily thanks to unpopular financial policies, such as ending a wealth tax, and his public manner, which many see as aloof and arrogant. But it was his planned fuel-tax hike, an environmental measure, that really kicked things off. An online video saying Macron is "hounding drivers" goes viral in October. Online outrage is soon transferred to France's streets as more than 290,000 demonstrators don the high-visibility vests that drivers are required by law to keep in their cars. They block roads nationwide. The protests, coordinated via social media, have no structural organization, lack visible leadership and disavow union or party ties. At least one person is killed and more than 150 are arrested. The Macron government says it won't back down, and further protests are scheduled. On November 24, some 100,000 people protest nationwide, with 8,000 in Paris, where violence and destruction breaks out. Police clash with protesters on the Champs-Elysees (above), using water canon and tear gas. Over €1 million ($1.1 million) in damage is reported. The "yellow vest" protests are a massive problem for Macron. He initially refuses to budge on the fuel tax, then proposes adjustment in case of rising oil costs. Not satisfied, protesters hit French streets again on December 1, with violence and vandalism erupting in Paris. Macron calls a crisis meeting the next day and on December 5, amid threats of more protests, Macron ditches the fuel tax. Macron, however, refuses to reinstitute the wealth tax and dismisses protesters' calls for his resignation. The "yellow vests" defy easy categorization, as protesters include both far-left and far-right supporters who opposed Macron's presidency bid. On December 8, nationwide violent protests take place again. Armored vehicles roll down Paris streets as much of the city goes on lockdown. On December 10, Macron responds to the 4-week-old protests with a televised speech to the nation from the Elysee Palace. More than 21 million viewers tune in as Macron strikes a conciliatory tone, saying he accepts his "share of responsibility" for the crisis. He introduces new financial measures, including a minimum-wage hike, tax-free overtime pay and tax exemptions for low-income retirees. In the meantime, the "yellow vest" protests jump beyond France's borders to other countries. In Belgium, demonstrators expressed anger over high taxes and food prices, as well as low wages and pensions. Anti-riot police responded with water cannon after protesters threw rocks at the prime minister's office. In Germany, protesters also turned out in Berlin and Munich. Protesters in France continue into late December, though turnout numbers fall. That doesn't discourage unofficial but high-profile protest leaders, who use social media to encourage continued demonstrations. On New Year's Eve, many revelers wear yellow vests as they take part in peaceful, "festive" gatherings in Paris. Any hopes for calm in the new year were quickly dashed when on January 5 a fresh round of nationwide protests saw some 50,000 take part, an increase in turnout after the holiday lull but less than initial December gatherings. In Paris, some protesters clashed with police, setting fire to motorcycles and storming government buildings. Macron condemned the violence, saying, "Justice will be done." Several hundred women wearing yellow vests marched through Paris on January 6 in an effort to restore a peaceful image to the "yellow vest" protests. At one point during the march, the women protesters fell to their knees in a minute of silence for the 10 people killed and many others injured since the start of the movement. In response to the "yellow vest" protests, Macron has begun a series of town hall discussions where he said he would hear the concerns of the French. His first was on January 15 in the northern town of Grand Bourgtheroulde, where around 600 mayors from the Normandy region gathered to raise complaints from their constituents. Author: Cristina Burack jm,dv/ng (AFP, dpa, Reuters) Each evening at 1830 UTC, DW's editors send out a selection of the day's hard news and quality feature journalism. You can sign up to receive it directly here.