US President Donald Trump said Tuesday that he would hold his long-awaited second summit with North Korea's Kim on February 27 and 28 in Vietnam. "As part of a bold new diplomacy, we continue our historic push for peace on the Korean Peninsula," he told Congress in his State of the Union address. "Our hostages have come home, nuclear testing has stopped, and there has not been a missile launch in 15 months. The president said much work remained to be done, but hailed his relationship with Kim as "a good one." "If I had not been elected president of the United States, we would right now, in my opinion, be in a major war with North Korea," he continued. What both sides want Trump met North Korean envoy Kim Yong Chol in January at the White House, where the two discussed plans for the second summit. Washington's goal for the talks is for Pyongyang to agree to give up its nuclear weapons. North Korea says it is seeking the removal of a "nuclear threat" from the US military forces in South Korea. The pair held their first summit in Singapore in June, the first time a sitting US president has met a North Korean leader. North Korean leader Kim Jong Un and US President Donald Trump shake hands as they meet for the first time. Unlike in past meetings with some world leaders, Trump did not try to pull Kim's hand towards him or hold on to the North Korean leader's hand too long. Trump and Kim appeared at ease with one another during the summit. Just a few months prior, Trump and Kim engaged in a war of words, trading insults like "little rocket man" and "mentally deranged." Following their meeting, Trump said he formed a "special bond" with Kim and that he'd like to invite him to the White House. Kim lays a hand on Trump's back as they leave after signing a joint statement pledging peace negotiations and denuclearization. Some critics worried that the US agreed to give up too many things in negotiations with Kim. At a press conference, Trump said he wanted to stop US military exercises with South Korea and eventually withdraw US troops — something Pyongyang has been demanding for years. Trump displays the joint agreement he signed with Kim. In the four-point document, Kim agreed to the "complete denuclearization of the Korean Peninsula." In exchange, Trump agreed to provide "security guarantees" to Pyongyang. The two leaders also agreed to build a "robust peace regime" and to return the remains of prisoners of the 1950-1953 Korean War. South Koreans watch the summit on a screen located at a train station in Seoul. Ahead of the event, critics expressed concern that the meeting between the two leaders would be purely symbolic and not bring concrete progress to easing tensions. Indeed, the agreement did not specify what exact measures would be taken. A bartender in Singapore crafted a special drink for the summit, dubbed "The Bromance." The meeting was held on Singapore's Sentosa island, a resort area with luxury hotels and a theme park. The island's security was massively increased ahead of the summit, while local businesses marked the occasion with special Trump-Kim branded water and drinks. Author: Rebecca Staudenmaier (with dpa, AFP) rc/amp (dpa, AFP) Each evening at 1830 UTC, DW's editors send out a selection of the day's hard news and quality feature journalism. You can sign up to receive it directly here.