Iran's top diplomat Mohammad Javad Zarif, an ally of moderate President Hassan Rouhani, unexpectedly announced he was stepping down in a social media post on Monday. "I sincerely apologize for the inability to continue serving and for all the shortcomings during my service. I thank the Iranian nation and officials," the 59-year-old diplomat wrote on Instagram according to the translation provided by the Reuters news agency. "Be happy and worthy," he added. The withdrawal would only become valid if accepted by the president. Following Zarif's post, Rouhani's chief of staff Mahmoud Vaezi "strongly denied" the reports that Zarif's resignation had been accepted. Experts on Iran speculated the move could be rejected by Rouhani as signal of trust in the diplomat, which could also be interpreted as a demonstration of power aimed at his hard-line critics. Zarif's post shows the message against the background image of Fatima, the daughter of Prophet Muhammad, with Iran marking the day on her birth on Monday. Instagram is one of few social networks still legal in Iran. Even so, it is highly unusual for a senior Iranian official to resign on social media. Return of sanctions sparks anger against Rouhani, Zarif Zarif traveled to the US for his education as a teenager and studied international relations in California and Colorado, eventually obtaining a doctorate from the University of Denver. He then entered the Iranian diplomatic corps and was appointed foreign minister in 2013. While the reasons for his resignation were not immediately clear, both Zarif and President Rouhani have been facing a storm of criticism from Iranian hard-liners over the partial breakdown of a nuclear deal with the West and the return of sanctions. Send  Facebook   Twitter   google+   Whatsapp   Tumblr   linkedin   stumble   Digg   reddit   Newsvine Permalink https://p.dw.com/p/2xf4X Read more: Iranians feel the pressure of new US sanctions Zarif served as one of the main architects of the 2015 accord which involved the US, UK, France, and Germany, as well as Russia and China. The deal imposes limits on Iran's nuclear program in exchange for easing the sanctions on the Iranian economy. With Donald Trump claiming the office of president in 2017, however, Washington has attempted to dismantle the deal and force other participants to re-impose economic restrictions on Iran. The ongoing currency crisis and economic slowdown in Iran has been fueling anger against Rouhani and his allies. Each evening at 1830 UTC, DW's editors send out a selection of the day's hard news and quality feature journalism. You can sign up to receive it directly here. 