Intense price wars among budget airlines are helping tens of millions of Asian consumers to fly for the first time. Cebu Pacific, for example, is currently offering one-way tickets within the Philippines for 99 pesos ($1.90, €1.68). One of India's top carriers, meanwhile, has been known to offer promotional base fares equivalent to as low as 2 cents. Cheaper, in some cases, than taking a rickshaw, flying is no longer the preserve of Asia's burgeoning middle and upper classes; it's now in the reach of low-income groups, who typically travel long distances by train or bus — journeys that often take several days. A potent drug to hook Asian consumers, these ultra-low prices are, however, hurting the bottom line of the region's burgeoning budget airline sector, as it struggles with rising costs in an era of overcapacity. Read more: Trains vs. planes: What's the real cost of travel? In India, for instance, despite between 15 and 20 percent annual passenger growth last year, the country's three biggest budget airlines — IndiGo, SpiceJet and Go Air — still made losses for at least one quarter. Elsewhere in the Asia-Pacific region, only six out of 20 publicly traded airlines made a profit in the last reported quarter of 2018, the Sydney-based CAPA Center for Aviation revealed earlier this month. The biggest budget airline market The lack of profitability, nearly 15 years after most Asian countries deregulated their aviation sectors, is a bitter pill, especially as the region last year became the world's largest low-cost carrier (LCC) market, overtaking Europe, with some 600 million cheap seats on sale. Send  Facebook   Twitter   google+   Whatsapp   Tumblr   linkedin   stumble   Digg   reddit   Newsvine Permalink https://p.dw.com/p/3Bf9s "It's kind of laughable that the only people in the entire aviation industry not making money are the airlines," Bangalore-based aviation analyst Devesh Agarwal told DW. Airports, governments (through taxes), onboard food providers and ground handlers are all cashing in on the budget airline boom, he added, while the carriers themselves are struggling to stay afloat. In India's case, Agarwal, who runs the website Bangalore Aviation, blamed over-bullishness on the part of the budget airlines operating in the country. They have adopted aggressive growth strategies, he said, pointing out that the carriers have therefore been forced to offer ultra-low fares to fill their planes. "I suspect that if they go back to realistic pricing, they'll see load factors drop from the mid-80s percent by at least 10 percent," he warned. Read more: Indonesia submits bid to host 2032 Olympics IndiGo airline is now the largest Indian airline by passengers carried — some 46 million in 2017 Rajiv Biswas, APAC Chief Economist at IHS Markit, told DW that India's aviation sector had experienced a "perfect storm" in 2018 due to significantly higher oil prices. "That pushed up jet aviation fuel costs, and was compounded by the depreciation of the Indian rupee against the strong US dollar," he noted. Fuel accounts for about 25 percent of an airline's operating costs. Raise prices at your peril Biswas predicted that rapid growth would continue over the next decade, but unless excess capacity is tackled, Indian airlines will have "limited pricing power to pass on costs to passengers." A similar picture exists across the rest of Asia where ambitious expansion plans have led to intense competition. Not only have legacy airlines been forced into significant efficiency drives, but whispers grow louder about the need for consolidation within the regional budget airline sector, where 60 carriers currently operate. Send  Facebook   Twitter   google+   Whatsapp   Tumblr   linkedin   stumble   Digg   reddit   Newsvine Permalink https://p.dw.com/p/37BwM "The reality is many can't [survive]. Only a few are doing well, namely AirAsia, Lion Air, VietJet and Cebu Pacific. The rest struggle to make ends meet," warned Shukor Yusof, founder of and analyst at the Singapore-based Endau Analytics. He sees Nok Air in Thailand, Malaysia's Malindo and a slew of smaller airlines in Indonesia at risk. India's GoAir was recently reported to be up for sale due to the harsh operating market, while the country's second-largest airline, Jet Airways, was last week rescued by a group of lenders in an attempt to allow it to seek fresh investment. Jet, a full-service airline, was compelled to offer budget prices in the wake of intense rivalry from LCCs and made losses in all but two of the last 11 years. Malaysia-headquartered Air Asia flies to more than 165 destinations spanning 25 countries Despite already feeling the pinch, this early era of high growth is still poised to continue. The region's budget airlines plan to more than double their existing fleet, with 2,400 new aircraft on order, according to CAPA. China lags on budget flights China is one market where the LCC sector has plenty of room for growth. Domestic traffic is massive — 242 million seats in 2018, albeit on legacy airlines. LCC penetration is less than 10 percent compared to more than 55 percent in Southeast Asia. Even so, airlines may have to turn to bargain fares to tempt passengers. Read more: Taiwan foreign minister: reunification with China 'not an option' "Airlines operating on Chinese domestic routes face increasing competition from high-speed rail networks that are reducing travel times between major cities," Biswas said. Although consolidation will help to shore up the sector, infrastructure remains a huge issue in many Asian countries as airlines aim to carry 2.35 billion more passengers by 2037, if estimates from the International Air Transport Association are anything to go by. Send  Facebook   Twitter   google+   Whatsapp   Tumblr   linkedin   stumble   Digg   reddit   Newsvine Permalink https://p.dw.com/p/32vqZ India's largest cities currently constitute about 60-70 percent of airline traffic, with budget airlines operating out of the same international airports as traditional carriers. "All of India's airports are operating well above their capacity," Agarwal warned, before endorsing the need for more capacity, alongside secondary airports near major cities. Read more:  Opinion: Our addiction to cheap flights is leaving us penniless Plans for a second airport to serve Mumbai, India's commercial capital, are already years behind schedule, he noted. China, however, is stealing a march and is investing in dozens of new regional airports that will suit budget airlines best. Affordable public transport to the nearest city, and food and beverage outlets that appeal to low-income groups are also vital components. After all, despite their success at tempting passengers on board, airlines still struggle to get them to pay for upgrades, additional baggage allowances and meals. About 3.7 billion passengers traveled by plane in 2016. Those who chose China Airlines as their carrier subjected themselves to the biggest risk, because the Taiwanese airline came in at the bottom of JACDEC's list of 60 globally operating carriers. The ranking was compiled on the basis of national air safety reports of the past 30 years. It measured the number of casualties and crashes against the airlines' traveled kilometers and passenger numbers. An airline without any loss of life and planes is given an index of zero to 0,001 points. Colombia's Avianca scored a value of 0.914 - the second-worst in 2016. Traveling with Garuda Indonesia - the third-worst performer on a score of 0.770 - isn't to be recommended either. Since its founding in 1950, the airline has reported 47 accidents - 22 of which have led to a total of 583 casualties. But JACDEC's ranking has been criticized for not separately counting technical defects, human errors, weather incidents and terrorist attacks as reasons for plane crashes. Terrorism, for example, is really an airport safety problem; it accounts for 10 percent of accidents. Simon Ashley Bennett, an air safety expert at Leicester University, says a terror attack on a plane is as unlikely as... ... an incident of freak weather leading to an accident. Latest data say that 10 percent of them can be attributed to snow, ice, fog and storms. Lightning isn't as dangerous as many believe. More prone to cause crashes are... Today's modern aircraft brim with technology. Small wonder then that technical defects account for about 20 percent of accidents, says Bennett, surpassed only by the biggest cause... Airline pilots are the biggest risk factor - they cause half of all accidents these days. Interaction between human beings and ever more complicated machines is prone to lead to mistakes, with the pilot always held accountable if something goes wrong. Yet, the 2009 crash landing in the Hudson River by Chesley Sullenberger shows that humans' piloting skills are not obsolete in modern aviation. Sullenberger's feat was only the third crash landing on water without casualties. All 155 passengers survived. Strangely enough, an aircraft that has been repaired after a crash gives an airline a better score with JACDEC than one that has been scrapped. Not a few experts question whether such a plane is really safe anymore. Further reason for criticism comes from the fact that an airline taken over by a rival has its score set back to zero by JACDEC. Lauda Air's 1991 crash with more than 200 casualties (see picture), for example, didn't affect the score of Austrian Airlines, which bought Lauda in 2004. Newly-founded airlines also start with zero points. Hongkong-based Cathay Pacific was the safest airline in 2016, according to the rankiing of the Hamburg, Germany-based institute. Runners-up were Air New Zealand and China's Hainan Airlines. Germany's flagship carrier, Lufthansa, landed in 12th place. On balance, 2016 was among the years with the fewest accidents in aviation history. Last year, JACDEC counted 321 deaths from plane crashes. But the Aviation Safety Network counted four deaths more due to a different inventory method. By far the worst aviation accident was that of a Bolivian charter flight carried out by LaMia, which crashed near Medellin, killing 71 people - among them almost the entire player roster of Brazilian football club AF Chapecoense. Author: Insa Wrede