Hollywood's biggest stars converged on the red carpet Sunday for the 91st Academy Awards, with the 7,900-odd voting Academy members faced with a broad array of choices. In a night where no single movie was favored to win, the civil rights drama "Green Book" came out on top. "We made this movie with love, tenderness and respect," producer and director Peter Farrelly said, standing with the cast on the Dolby Theatre stage in Los Angeles. The film tells the story of a friendship between a black musician and his white driver and at its core, Farrelly said, it was "about loving each other despite our differences." For the first time in three decades, no one hosted the Oscars this year. The Academy took the risk after comedian Kevin Hart withdrew from the gig amid controversy over past tweets that were slammed as homophobic. In the absence of a host, the show balanced itself on a flow of actors and personalities, which included tennis star Serena Williams, veteran actors like Helen Mirren and Julia Roberts, singers Bette Midler and Barbra Streisand, Congressman John Lewis and comedian Trevor Noah, among many others. Read more: Artist Gerhard Richter feels 'abused' by Germany's Oscar entry Best leading role The top awards for acting went to Olivia Colman and Remi Malek. Though Glenn Close had been considered the favorite to win for "The Wife," Colman took home the Oscar for her performance in "The Favourite." The award was the biggest surprise of the night, shocking even Colman herself, who jokingly said she hoped her children were watching because "this is not going to happen again." Olivia Colman won the first Oscar of her career Malek earned his first Oscar for his performance as the legendary singer Freddy Mercury in "Bohemian Rhapsody." Malek was the favorite for the top nod, following trophies at the Golden Globes, Screen Actors Guild and British BAFTA awards for the role. The 37-year-old actor dedicated his win to all young people struggling to find their identity, emphasizing his story as a first-generation American, born to Egyptian parents, and the character he portrayed in the film who was gay and a son of immigrants. Rami Malek was the favorite to win best actor in a leading role Best supporting roles The award for best supporting roles went to African-American actors Regina King and Mahershala Ali, both of whom had previously been honored at the Golden Globes. With her work on "If Beale Street Could Talk," King prevailed over a talented field that included previous Oscar winners Rachel Weisz and Emma Stone. Regina King won the first Oscar of her career "To be standing here, representing one of the greatest artists of our time, James Baldwin, it's a little surreal," King said of the American writer whose novel the movie was based on. Ali took home his second Oscar, having also won for his supporting role in "Moonlight" in 2017. This year, Ali was awarded for his performance in the interracial road-trip drama "Green Book." Best foreign-language film: "Roma" Director Alfonso Cuaron's black-and-white cinematic remembrance of his childhood in Mexico, "Roma," took away the Oscar in the foreign-language category, in a field that included films from Poland, Lebanon, Japan and Germany ("Werk ohne Autor"/"Never Look Away"). Actors Angela Bassett and Javier Bardem presented the award, with Bardem speaking entirely in Spanish, his native tongue. On receiving the Oscar, the Mexican director reflected on the impact that "foreign-language films" in English and French had on his career and work. Cuaron also picked up top honors in directing and cinematography for the film. Greek director Yorgos Lanthimos has been nominated 10 times for his English-language drama, "The Favourite," a film about scheming at the English royal court in the 18th century. Olivia Colman plays Queen Anne, and she is also in the race for best actress. "The Favourite" has a major competitor, however: the Mexican Netflix production "Roma," which has also been nominated 10 times. The film has already won many awards, and is one among eight movies nominated in the most important Oscar category, Best Picture of the Year. "Roma" is about the life of a nanny in a Mexican middle-class family in the 1970s. There is not a woman in sight in this category this year. Alfonso Cuaron ("Roma") and Yorgos Lanthimos have been nominated, as well as US directors Spike Lee ("BlacKkKlansman") and Adam McKay ("Vice"), and Polish director Pawel Pawlikowski (photo, "Cold War"). Two Europeans and a Mexican up for this award at the 2019 Oscars — that is a novelty. The race is wide open in the best actress category. Nominees include Lady Gaga ("A Star is Born," photo) , Glenn Close ("The Wife"), Melissa McCarthy ("Can You Ever Forgive Me?"), Olivia Colman ("The Favourite") and Yalitza Aparico ("Roma"). Most experts would probably like to see 71-year-old Glenn Close finally get an Oscar after six unsuccessful attempts. There is a clear favorite this year for the best actor award: Christian Bale for his role as former US Vice President Dick Cheney. A hardly recognizable Bale gained 20 kilograms to alter his appearance. The other contenders for the award are Bradley Cooper ("A Star Is Born"), Willem Dafoe ("At Eternity's Gate"), Rami Malek ("Bohemian Rhapsody") and Viggo Mortensen ("Green Book"). The evening promises to be exciting for the women nominated in the best supporting actress category, too: Emma Stone and Rachel Weisz (photo) were nominated for their performances in "The Favourite." The other nominees are Regina King ("If Beale Street Could Talk"), Amy Adams ("Vice") and Marina de Tavira ("Roma"). Golden Globe-winner Mahershala Ali (photo, right) is one of the nominees in the best supporting actor category for his performance as a pianist in the drama "Green Book." His competitors: Adam Driver ("BlacKkKlansman"), Richard E. Grant ("Can You Ever Forgive Me?"), Sam Elliott ("A Star Is Born") and Sam Rockwell ("Vice"). Two of the 24 Oscar categories are reserved for authors, and perhaps this year, Paul Schrader will win one of them, namely for best original screenplay. The director and writer is nominated for his screenplay for "First Reformed," which he also directed. Born in Michigan in 1946, the author of "Taxi Driver" is a US movie legend. Multi-talented Alfonso Cuaron took on different jobs in his movie "Roma," including director, producer and cameraman. Cuaron was nominated in the category best camera. Another novelty: "Roma" is also in the running in the categories best film and best foreign language film. "Roma" faces off in this category with Germany's Florian Henckel von Donnersmarck's controversial artist drama "Never Look Away" (photo). The other international works in the line up are Japan's "Shoplifters," Poland's "Cold War" and the Lebanese "Capernaum." In the best musical score category, French-Greek composer Alexandre Desplat, nominated for his score for Wes Anderson's "Isle of Dogs," competes against three US composers and a colleague from Sweden. Desplat already has two Oscars and seven other nominations under his belt. Apart from Florian Henckel von Donnersmarck, three other Germans can hope for an Oscar: Berlin producers Ansgar Frerich, Eva Kemme and Tobias N. Siebert are in the race for the best documentary film award for "Of Fathers and Sons" by director Talal Derki. The movie describes two years in the life of a radical Islamist family. Author: Jochen Kürten (db) Black Panther and Lady Gaga gain nods It was a successful night for the action film "Black Panther." The movie about a black superhero from the mythical country of Wakanda racked up three awards for production design, costume design and original score. Singer Lady Gaga won an Oscar for the original song "Shallow" in the film "A Star is Born," for which she had also received a nomination in a leading role. "It's not about winning. But what it's about is not giving up. If you have a dream, fight for it," the 32-year-old said when she accepted her award. Lady Gaga and Bradley Cooper performed her song "Shallow" Lists of nominees and winners (in bold) Best picture "Black Panther" "BlacKkKlansman" "Bohemian Rhapsody" "The Favourite" "Green Book" "Roma" "A Star Is Born" "Vice" Director "BlacKkKlansman," Spike Lee "Cold War," Paweł Pawlikowski "The Favourite," Yorgos Lanthimos Roma, Alfonso Cuaron "Vice," Adam McKay Actress in a leading role Yalitza Aparicio, "Roma" Glenn Close, "The Wife Olivia Colman, "The Favourite" Lady Gaga, "A Star Is Born" Melissa McCarthy, "Can You Ever Forgive Me?" Actor in a leading role Christian Bale, "Vice" Bradley Cooper, "A Star Is Born" Willem Dafoe, "At Eternity's Gate" Rami Malek, "Bohemian Rhapsody" Viggo Mortensen, "Green Book" Actress in a supporting role Amy Adams, "Vice" Marina de Tavira, "Roma" Regina King, "If Beale Street Could Talk" Emma Stone, "The Favourite" Rachel Weisz, "The Favourite" Actor in a supporting role Mahershala Ali, "Green Book" Adam Driver, "BlacKkKlansman" Sam Elliott, "A Star Is Born" Richard E. Grant, "Can You Ever Forgive Me?" Sam Rockwell, "Vice" Foreign language film "Capernaum," Lebanon "Cold War," Poland "Never Look Away," Germany "Roma," Mexico "Shoplifters," Japan Animated f"eature "Incredibles 2" "Isle of Dogs" "Mirai" "Ralph Breaks the Internet" "Spider-Man: Into the Spider-Verse" Adapted screenplay "The Ballad of Buster Scruggs," Joel Coen and Ethan Coen "BlacKkKlansman," Charlie Wachtel, David Rabinowitz, Kevin Willmott, and Spike Lee "Can You Ever Forgive Me?," Nicole Holofcener and Jeff Whitty "If Beale Street Could Talk," Barry Jenkins "A Star Is Born, Eric Roth," Bradley Cooper, and Will Fetters Original screenplay "The Favourite," Deborah Davis and Tony McNamara "First Reformed," Paul Schrader "Green Book," Nick Vallelonga, Brian Currie, and Peter Farrelly "Roma," Alfonso Cuaron "Vice," Adam McKay Original score "Black Panther" "BlacKkKlansman" "If Beale Street Could Talk" "Isle of Dogs" "Mary Poppins Returns" Original song "All the Stars," "Black Panther" "I'll Fight," "RBG" "The Place Where Lost Things Go," "Mary Poppins Returns" "Shallow," "A Star Is Born" "When a Cowboy Trades His Spurs for Wings," "The Ballad of Buster Scruggs" Documentary short "Black Sheep" "End Game" "Lifeboat" "A Night at the Garden" "Period. End of Sentence." Cinematography "Cold War," Lukasz Zal "The Favourite," Robbie Ryan "Never Look Away," Caleb Deschanel "Roma," Alfonso Cuaron "A Star Is Born," Matthew Libatique Best documentary feature Free Solo "Hale County This Morning," This Evening "Minding the Gap" "Of Fathers and Sons" "RBG" Production design "Black Panther "The Favourite" "First Man" "Mary Poppins Returns" "Roma" Sound mixing "Black Panther" "Bohemian Rhapsody" "First Man" "Roma" "A Star Is Born" Costume design "The Ballad of Buster Scruggs" "Black Panther" "The Favourite" "Mary Poppins Returns" "Mary Queen of Scots" Film editing "BlacKkKlansman" "Bohemian Rhapsody" "The Favourite" "Green Book" "Vice" Sound editing "Black Panther" "Bohemian Rhapsody" "First Man" "A Quiet Place" "Roma" Animated short film "Animal Behavior" "Bao" "Late Afternoon" "One Small Step" "Weekends" Live-action short "Detainment" "Fauve" "Marguerite" "Mother" "Skin" Makeup and hairstyling "Border" "Mary Queen of Scots" "Vice" Visual effects "Avengers: Infinity War" "Christopher Robin" "First Man" "Ready Player One" "Solo: A Star Wars Story"  Each evening at 1830 UTC, DW's editors send out a selection of the day's hard news and quality feature journalism. You can sign up to receive it directly here.