A former contractor for the National Security Agency (NSA) who stored more than two decades' worth of classified documents at his home has been sentenced to nine years in prison. US District Judge Richard Bennett acknowledged at sentencing there was no evidence that Harold Martin had intended to forward classified information, but said "people's lives were potentially in danger.” Martin, whose nine-year jail sentence stems from a plea agreement, apologized saying "my methods were wrong, illegal and highly questionable.” Read more: US and British agencies target air passenger phone calls He admitted guilt to a single count of willful retention of national defense information — after initially denying a strings of charges. Send  Facebook   Twitter   google+   Whatsapp   Tumblr   linkedin   stumble   Digg   reddit   Newsvine Permalink https://p.dw.com/p/1Gpao The case came to light in 2016 when FBI agents raided Martin's home, car and storage shed, finding documents dating back more than 23 years from his time working for at least seven federal entities, including the NSA and US Cyber Command. The documents included personal details of government employees and "top secret" email chains, said investigators, who initially put the volume at 50 terabytes of electronic files. Martin was employed by Booz Allen Hamilton, which subsequently said it had improved its process of hiring employees. The case marked a further embarrassment after the NSA's global surveillance methods were revealed in 2013 by another Booz Allen contractor, Edward Snowden — who is now living in Russia and accused of treason in the United States. The Martin case came to light just two weeks after a internet group calling itself Shadow Brokers advertised the sale of hacking tools stolen from the NSA. Prosecutors, however, never linked Martin to that incident. Defense links theft to hoarding Prior to sentencing, Robert Hur, the United States attorney in Maryland, told The Associated Press that Martin had put "national security at risk." But defense attorneys described Martin, a Navy veteran, as a compulsive hoarder who never betrayed his country and who had a mental health disorder. The stolen documents had been "profoundly important to him when he was in the throes of his mental health situation,” said defense lawyer James Wyda. In his new film "Snowden," Oliver Stone makes a clear effort to remain unbiased. Edward Snowden, played by Joseph Gordon-Levitt, is anything other than a hero with a goal. On the contrary, Stone presents the future whistleblower as an ambitious IT expert who wants to climb the career ladder at the NSA. American director Oliver Stone turned 70 on September 15, a few days after the film's official premiere at the Toronto Film Festival. In the US, "Snowden" opened in cinemas on September 16. Early on, Snowden wanted to serve his country as a soldier in Iraq. During his military training, he broke both legs. It was due to this accident that the young man came into contact with the NSA and the CIA, where he quickly got attention for his strong IT talent. Snowden's boss at the CIA, Corbin O'Brian (played in the film by Welsh actor Rhys Ifans) becomes a big fan of the young man's work. He takes Snowden under his wing. Gradually, Snowden begins to understand what his work at the intelligence agencies is all about: total surveillance both abroad and at home. Many computer nerds work for the CIA and the NSA. Snowden looks over their shoulders and comes to the realization that privacy has lost its sanctity. Oliver Stone's "Snowden" shows how the whistleblower evolved from being an ambitious worker to a critic of the system. The film is full of exciting moments and dense scenes. Particularly memorable is the scene in which Snowden gathers top-secret data from a CIA building and smuggles it out - in a Rubik's cube. Stone shows Snowden's escape from the system as he flees to Asia and begins to collaborate with the journalists to whom he will ultimately release numerous secret documents. Here, Snowden is pictured handing over information to "The Guardian" journalist Ewen MacAskill, played by Tom Wilkinson. With his rousing political thriller, Oliver Stone manages to offer a very human portrayal of the whistleblower - not least due to the convincing performance of actor Joseph Gordon-Levitt. He is depicted as a young man who has a girlfriend and is caught between working for the good of his society and his own interests. Author: Jochen Kürten / kbm ipj/cmk (AP, AFP)