President Volodymyr Zelenskiy's Servant of the People party has scored some 42% in Ukraine's parliamentary election, according to preliminary results released by Ukraine's electoral body early Monday. This puts the party far ahead the competition, with pro-Kremlin Opposition Platform-For Life placing second with only 12.5% of the vote. The results are based on over 20% of the ballots counted. The 41-year-old comedian-turned-president has convinced voters of his Servant of the People party platform, which includes negotiating a political solution to the eastern Ukrainian conflict, boosting the economy and cracking down on corruption. "Our main priorities — and I repeat this for every Ukrainian — are to end the war, return our prisoners and defeat the corruption that persists in Ukraine," Zelenskiy said late Sunday, responding to exit polls. "Right now, he and his party have high ratings," Ukrainian politics expert Volodymyr Fesenko, who leads the Penta Center of Applied Political Studies, told German news agency dpa. "His party has the potential to achieve a dominating position in the new parliament." Read more: How Zelenskiy beat Petro Poroshenko in Ukraine Reaching for absolute majority It still remains unclear whether Servant of the People will need to form a coalition with one or more parties to govern. Poroshenko lost the two-round presidential elections earlier this year Nearly 200 of the 424 seats in Ukraine's parliament are filled by directly elected candidates, while the rest are voted in through party lists. Former President Petro Poroshenko's rebranded European Solidarity party picked up 8.7%, while former Prime Minister Yulia Tymoshenko's Fatherland party garnered 8.4%. Golos, the newly formed party of rock star Svyatoslav Vakarchuk, won 6.3% of the vote. Other parties have apparently failed to clear the 5% barrier to enter the assembly. Ex-entertainers eye coalition Zelenskiy has already signaled he is willing to discuss a coalition with Vakarchuk if Servant of the People falls short of the majority in parliament. "We invite Mr. Vakarchuk to talk," Zelenskiy said at his election headquarters. Vakarchuk said it was "too early" to talk specifics but added that he was "ready for talks with other political forces that have the same principles as us." Full official results are expected to be released later on Monday. Not too long ago, Volodymyr Zelenskiy cracked jokes on screen in the popular Ukrainian TV show "Servant of the People," in which he plays a history teacher who becomes president of Ukraine. For Zelenskiy, the story has become reality — the actor won the country's presidential election in April. He isn't the only screen actor enter the political scene. Arnold Schwarzenegger was a bodybuilder and actor before he became governor of California (2003-2011). He is hands down one of the best-known celebrities to make that radical change in career. Initially a tough Republican, he later tightened weapons laws and raised minimum wage. He is still active in environmental protection. Jesse Ventura — above in the 1987 film "Predator" — was an actor and a professional wrestler before he served first as mayor of Brooklyn Park, Minnesota, and then as the state's governor for a term. He returned to the screen from 2009 to 2012 as host of the US TV series "Conspiracy Theory." Acting gave Ronald Reagan a taste of politics long before he became governor of California and the 40th US president in 1981. Beginning in 1941, he was active in the union at Warner Bros. film company and later became president of the Screen Actors Guild. Decades later, President Donald Trump picked up Reagan's successful 1980 election campaign slogan, "Let's make America great again." Clint Eastwood's political career also started in California, where the actor and director served as mayor of his hometown, Carmel, from 1986-88. But the fast-paced film industry drew him back. However he kept his political voice present, and many years later, the legendary film star spoke at the 2016 Republican party convention, endorsing the party's presidential candidate, Donald Trump. With a politician father and grandfather who were interior minister and mayor of Athens respectively, the Greek actress and chanson singer Melina Mercouri seemed destined to enter politics, too. She became a lawmaker and later served twice as Greece's culture minister. In 1973 the military coup in Chile forced writer Antonio Skarmeta to flee via Argentina to Berlin. His writing focused on life in exile and being a stranger in a foreign country. Skarmeta returned to his native country 16 years later, only to live in the German capital again from 2000 to 2003, this time as Chilean Ambassador. British actress Glenda Jackson won two Oscars for Best Actress, including for the 1969 film "Women in Love" (above). In 1992 she headed into politics for the Labour Party and served for four legislature periods in the House of Commons. She was one of Labour Prime Minister Tony Blair's most outspoken critics during the Iraq War. Jackson finally retired from politics at age 79. Vinod Khanna was one of the most successful actors in India in the 1970s. Yet he retired from the film business at the height of his career, spending a few years at the ashram of a mystical guru named Osho Rajneesh in the US before winning a seat in the Indian Parliament. Later he served as tourism and culture minister and as state minister in the foreign ministry. Khanna died in 2017. Michel Martelly was president of Haiti from 2011 to 2016 and tasked with rebuilding the country after a devastating 2010 earthquake. Before that he was a popular singer who performed under the stage name "Sweet Micky" singing Kompa, a form of Haitian folk music. Author: Bettina Baumann (db) Every day, DW's editors send out a selection of the day's hard news and quality feature journalism. Sign up for the newsletter here. dj, ls/cmk (AFP, Reuters, dpa)