Addressing US President Donald Trump's recent attacks against a group of minority congresswomen, Merkel clearly showed her disdain. "I firmly distance myself from it and feel solidarity towards the attacked women," Merkel said at her annual summer press conference in Berlin. The chancellor said that "people of very different nationalities have contributed to the strength of the American people." She added that Trump's statements "contradict the strength of America." Merkel has joined other international leaders in condemning Trump's remarks Merkel joined other international leaders who have criticized Trump. The US president had tweeted that the congresswomen from the Democratic Party should "go back and help fix the totally broken and crime infested places from which they came." All congresswomen are US citizens and three of them were born in the United States. Trump's remarks were criticized as "racist," although he dismissed that description and said he did not have "a racist bone" in his body. Read more: US House condemns Trump's racist comments Often referred to as "the Squad" — both by themselves and the media — the first-term Democrats in the US House of Representatives are united in their progressive views. Although they come from different ethnic and religious backgrounds, they all stand for more diversity in US politics. And this has put them at odds with Donald Trump. It was actually Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez who first used the slang term “squad” on an Instagram post to refer to herself, Ayanna Pressley, Rashida Tlaib and Ilhan Omar shortly after they were elected in 2018. The moniker, which means a group of people with a common sense of identity, has stuck with them ever since. In recent weeks it's been used derisively by those who try to belittle the women. The Squad are just four of the 102 women elected in 2018 to serve in the House of Representatives, the lower chamber of Congress. Never before have so many women been elected to this highest level of office. During the 2019 State of the Union address, Ocasio-Cortez and her colleagues dressed in white to draw attention to the increased role women intend to play in the US legislature. As women of color, the four representatives are conscious of the role they play in US politics. Ayanna Pressley, Massachusett’s first black congresswoman, summed up their position in a response to Trump's attacks: “We ran on a mandate to advocate for and to represent those ignored, left out, and left behind ... Our squad includes any person committed to creating a more equitable and just world.” The youngest woman ever to enter Congress has taken Washington by storm. At just 29, Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez exudes an energy that appeals to younger voters while attracting national media attention. Her extensive social media presence has made her the unofficial spokeswoman for the Squad as well as helping her boost awareness for policies such as her Green New Deal and immigration reform. When the US president tweeted that the four congresswomen should “go back to the … places from which they came,” no one was more targeted than Ilhan Omar. The Somalia-born politician came to the US as a refugee before becoming a US citizen. She has denounced Trump for launching “a blatantly racist attack” and vowed not to be deterred or frightened. On the eve of her swearing-in as one of the first two Muslim congresswomen, Omar reflected on how far she has come since arriving 23 years ago from a refugee camp in Kenya. She has said Trump's "nightmare is seeing an immigrant rise to Congress." For Omar, the confrontation with the president is about "what this country truly should be." Rashida Tlaib is the second of two Muslim women in Congress. Born in the US to Palestinian parents, Tlaib has come under attack for her outspoken criticism of Israel, both from Republicans and Democrats. She refers to the president as a bully and has repeatedly called for his impeachment. She sees herself as a democratic socialist and champions progressive policies such as health care for all. At 45, Ayanna Pressley is the oldest member of the Squad, with more than a decade in politics. In the days following Trump’s racist attacks, Pressley tweeted out that while Trump spewed his racism, she would fight for marginalized families and build communities. Like the other congresswomen, Pressley has been critical of the US Immigration and Customs Enforcement and family separation policy. Author: Kristin Zeier 'I understand questions about my health' Merkel also used the press conference to once again dispel doubts about her health, after three recent shaking spells in public caused concern in the country. "I understand questions about my health, and I have already given an answer," Merkel said. "It is important that I commit myself to the responsibility of acting as head of government. Now, I would just say that you have known me for a while. And I can perform this function," she said. Merkel once again stressed her intention to remain chancellor until the end of the current term The German chancellor, who turned 65 this week, said she also had a personal interest in her good health. Read more: Opinion: Merkel entitled to privacy over health concerns "As I said, I will finish my political work in 2021, but I hope that life will continue after that, and I would like it to continue in a healthy way," she said. The press conference, with its trademark blue background, is a traditional event, which began under former Chancellor Helmut Kohl (1982-1998). It was here that Merkel uttered one of the sentences that will undoubtedly mark her legacy. "We can do this (Wir schaffen das)," she said in August 2015, referring to Germany taking in over 1 million migrants at the height of the refugee crisis. 'Proud' of von der Leyen Merkel also fielded questions about Ursula von der Leyen, who was voted new EU Commission president this week, saying that her election was "really good news for Europe" and a reason to be "proud" from a German perspective. Merkel added that her confirmation had avoided uncertainty and conflict among European institutions, which would be important in the future regarding pressing issues such as Brexit. The chancellor showed no intention of amending the Withdrawal Agreement between the UK and the EU, saying it had been carefully negotiated, but she did say the declaration on the future relationship between the EU and the UK could be refined. And this, in turn, could have an impact on the Irish border question. Securing her political legacy: Merkel with two of her closest advisers, Ursula von der Leyen (center) and Annegret Kramp-Karrenbauer Merkel also had positive words for von der Leyen's successor as German defense minister, Annegret Kramp-Karrenbauer, who is currently the head of Merkel’s conservative Christian Democrats (CDU). The announcement of Kramp-Karrenbauer's new position came as a surprise in Berlin, but Merkel defended the decision by saying she had the "political weight" to lead the ministry, one of Germany's most important and most controversial Cabinet positions. Read more: Potential pitfalls for Germany's new defense minister Both Kramp-Karrenbauer and von der Leyen are among Merkel's closest advisers, and their new roles have been analyzed as a way in which Merkel is securing part of her political legacy. The chancellor reiterated that she believed her government was "capable of working" despite serious infighting that has threatened the coalition. And she said there was a lot of work to be done after the summer break, in such areas as climate protection and digital development. "I have to fulfill my tasks," she said. Send  Facebook   Twitter   google+   Whatsapp   Tumblr   linkedin   stumble   Digg   reddit   Newsvine Permalink https://p.dw.com/p/3MBSS