As the Philippine government undertakes the rebuilding process of Marawi city more than two years after it was overrun by Islamic militants, an issue regarding underage marriages in the communities has reared its ugly head. Khuzy Maranda, a volunteer at the Marawi evacuation camps, told DW that she witnessed several cases of marriages among adolescent couples, especially during the jihadist siege. "Many people in Marawi lost everything during the siege. They lost their homes, their livelihood and security. Therefore, parents started marrying off their young daughters due to economic constraints or because they could no longer take care of them," said Maranda. The Philippines' security forces officially ended their combat operations in Marawi at the end of 2017. The five-month battle between the army and the "Islamic State"-linked Maute militant group was one of the deadliest in the Southeast Asian country since World War II. Read more: The Philippines - In the Sights of IS Traditions under threat The violence and chaos in Marawi also posed a challenge to the Muslim tradition of male-female segregation. As people took refuge in gymnasiums, madrassas or classrooms, the segregation of young boys and girls could no longer be exercised. So parents thought it would be better to marry off their children to preserve the "family honor." Read more: Battle for Marawi takes huge toll on public health in Philippines In a report released on Tuesday, June 9, Human Rights Watch (HRW) called on the Bangladeshi authorities to spur efforts to deal with what it calls an "epidemic" of child marriage. The international rights group criticized Bangladeshi legislation which proposes lowering the legal marriage age from 18 to 16. Around 30 percent of girls in Bangladesh are married off before their 15th birthday, according to the report "Marry Before Your House is Swept Away." The HRW report is based on interviews with scores of Bangladeshi child brides. Child marriage is illegal in Bangladesh, but birth certificates can easily be forged by bribing officials to facilitate underage marriages. Frequent natural disasters have pushed many Bangladeshis into greater poverty. This has also resulted in more child marriages, as a girl is considered a financial burden in most South Asian families. Bangladeshi PM Sheikh Hasina pledged to end marriages under the age of 15 by 2021 last year at a conference in London. But rights groups say her government hasn't done much to fulfil that promise. Studies show that the lack of education for girls traps them not just in a cycle of poverty, making them economically dependent, but also puts their health at serious risk. Young brides targets of domestic abuse and marital rape as well. The issue is not confined to Bangladesh. Forced early marriages are widespread in the whole of South Asia, also because of cultural and religious ideas about the appropriate marriage age. According to UNHCR estimates, globally more than 140 million girls will be married off before their 18th birthday over the next decade, and almost 50 percent of these brides are in South Asia. Child marriage is prohibited by national and regional laws in South Asian countries such as India, Pakistan, Afghanistan, Bangladesh, Nepal and Sri Lanka. But the practice persists unabated. According to a report by the United Nations Population Fund (UNFPA), 24.4 million women between the ages 20 to 24 were reportedly married before they were 18 years old between 2000 and 2010. Stephen Adkisson, UNICEF's Deputy Regional Director for South Asia, told DW it was crucial to engage communities to promote dialogue on issues such as child marriage, maternal deaths and gender-biased selection in order to change mindsets, which are the result of deeply embedded social, economic, cultural and political factors. Author: Shamil Shams According to the Muslim Personal Law in the Philippines, boys who have reached the age of 15 and girls who have had their first menstruation are allowed to tie the knot. "Child marriage is not a norm in the Southeast Asian country, but the conflict in Marawi crippled the economy and devastated families. The need for survival became more important than anything else," Samira Gutoc, a former legislator and resident of Marawi, told DW. "Child marriage existed in Bangsamoro [officially the Bangsamoro Autonomous Region in Muslim Mindanao] even before the start of the Marawi conflict, but the Islamist siege exacerbated the problem," Andrew Morris, head of the United Nations Children Fund (UNICEF) Mindanao Field Office, told DW. Official data on early marriages in Mindanao is scarce, but a 2010 survey with some 600 respondents in the province's predominantly Muslim regions showed that 83% of residents aged between 15 and 17 got married in the areas, whereas 17% were between 9-14 years of age. Transitional phase More than 400,000 people in Marawi and neighboring areas have been displaced due to the 2017 conflict. Rights groups say that the government's reconstruction and rehabilitation process has been fraught with mismanagement and corruption. Read more: Marawi residents report military abuses during jihadist siege Humanitarian relief agencies estimate that around 66,000 people are still unable to return to their homes. Some are living with host families, while over 20% continue to stay in evacuation centers and temporary shelters. Around 80% of the Filipino Muslim community are based in southern Philippines. Several areas of the Mindanao region have been the epicenter of skirmishes between government forces and insurgency groups, including the jihadist Abu Sayyaf organization. Send  Facebook   Twitter   google+   Whatsapp   Tumblr   linkedin   stumble   Digg   reddit   Newsvine Permalink https://p.dw.com/p/3AE80 Muslim feminist groups say the issue of early marriages in Mindanao should be compared with other conflict-ridden regions, as it is not exclusive to Marawi. "Many conflict-marred areas in the country have a high percentage of underage marriages," Fatima Allian, program manager for the Nisa Ul-Haqq Fi Bangsamoro (Women for Justice in the Bangsamoro) non-government organization, told DW. "The post-conflict phase is even more troublesome for the displaced people because although they no longer hear gunshots, they still do not have a sense of security," she added. Read more: Muslim ID proposal sparks anger in Philippines Marawi Realistic discourse Nisa Ul-Haqq, along with other child rights groups, has been working with local Islamic leaders to update the age provisions stipulated in the 1974 Code of Muslim Personal Laws. Some progress was made in 2015 when Muslim clerics issued a fatwa (a religious edict) that Muslim youth should get married "when the necessary conditions are met." In January, a plebiscite ratified the creation of the Bangsamoro Autonomous Region in Muslim Mindanao, giving the region increased executive, legislative and fiscal powers. The three-year transition period entails a reevaluation of existing laws, which Allian hopes will alter the age limit for marriage. "We need to talk about these 'tabooed' issues, including child marriage. To end the practice, we need to have a realistic discourse about why it happens and what can be achieved," she added. Read more: Marawi residents caught between a difficult terrain and Islamists Send  Facebook   Twitter   google+   Whatsapp   Tumblr   linkedin   stumble   Digg   reddit   Newsvine Permalink https://p.dw.com/p/3GWdr