After 4 p.m. (2000 UTC) on Monday, lights began going out in 19 of Venezuela's 23 states. Communications Minister Jorge Rodriguez called the cut a "national event" — and had a theory as to what had caused it. Read more: Venezuela's army death squads kill thousands — UN "The first indications received from the investigation ... point to the existence of an electromagnetic attack that sought to affect the hydroelectric generation system of Guayana," Rodriguez said on state television late Monday. The natural region in southern Venezuela hosts the Guri hydroelectric power station, which produces 80% of the country's electricity. Read more: US to redirect Central America aid to Venezuela's Juan Guaido With traffic lights out, bottlenecks snarled the capital and the sidewalks teemed with pedestrians walking home when the metro stopped. Stores closed as the lack of electricity prevented the use of credit and debit cards. Cash has become worthless in Venezuela. 'Won't grow accustomed' As blackouts have become common in Venezuela, the government has blamed sabotage, but opposition figures and the press say a lack of investment, poor management, the emigration of qualified engineers and personnel, and corruption likely play a bigger role. Read more: German ambassador to Venezuela returns after spat "They tried to hide the tragedy by rationing throughout the country, but the failure is clear," Juan Guaido, whom the U.S. and more than 50 other nations recognize as interim president, wrote late Monday on Twitter. The opposition leader reiterated a call for nationwide protests on Tuesday: "We Venezuelans won't grow accustomed to this," he wrote. Read more: Venezuela: Juan Guaido's bodyguards arrested A weeklong outage in March affected all 23 states, shutting down the water supply and canceling work and school. That incident and another that came days later affected hospital care, as well. President Nicolas Maduro's opponents said 20 people died because of lack problems with medical treatment. He blamed "terrorists" for the cut, claiming that they had attacked the Guri hydroelectric plant. Read more: US Secretary of State Pompeo blames Cuba for Venezuelan regime In the wake of the earlier blackouts, Rodriguez said, the government "has implemented protection and security protocols" that will permit the restoration of electricity "in the shortest possible time." He added: "Those who've systematically attacked the noble people of Venezuela in all kinds of ways will once again be confronted with the mettle and courage that we, the children of our liberator, Simon Bolivar, have demonstrated in the face of difficulties." Venezuelan migrants wait in line to have their registration number and details checked before receiving their lunch. The UN's World Food Program serves food three times a day. Rows of tents provided by the UNCHR for the refugees line the reception center in Maicao, providing as much comfort as is possible in these circumstances. The recently inaugurated reception center in Maicao in the La Guajira region — a collaboration between the UNHCR, the UN's refugee agency and the Colombian authorities — is the first of its kind in Colombia. Local and national government agencies called on the UNHCR for aid because of the steady influx of Venezuelan migrants and refugees crossing the border into Maicao. Domingo Antonio Fernandez Lopez, a 72-year-old former journalist and professor, used to hear about and see refugees in the news, but never thought he would end up in a shelter as well. Having worked most of his life, he now feels useless. Every morning he gets up, waits to have breakfast, and waters the area near the entrance of his tent because the dust is affecting his lungs and eyes. Rusmari Luna Pereira brought a bracelet with her from Venezuela her mother made for her for the trip. She had to leave with her children because she couldn’t provide for them anymore. She said some people in Venezuela give their children to other families, others abandoned them on the streets. She said she found those stories hard to believe but now understands how desperate some of them are. Rosmery Castillo left Venezuela a month ago with two of her children and left a third with her brother. She was a nurse in Valencia but her minimum wage was wiped out by high inflation, leaving her with almost nothing to buy food. She plans to return to Venezuela as soon as the situation improves to be with her mother and grandmother, who she had to leave behind. Rosmery Castillo (34, left) and Vanesa Añez Añez (19) did not know each other when they both arrived at the UNHCR reception center at the same time. They were placed in a tent to share. A Colombian Red Cross clinic at the reception center caters to health issues the migrants and refugees may suffer from such as lung problems caused by the dust from the La Guajira Desert. Xenophobia is always hovering in the background, but La Guajira has a historical connection with Maracaibo in Venezuela. Many people from La Guajira moved to Venezuela during the Colombian FARC conflict. There is solidarity among people of both sides. There are also many IDPs in Colombia, who understand what it is like for the Venezuelans to be in this predicament. The official crossing between Colombia and Venezuela is marked by a few fences and soldiers standing guard. There is one official way to cross between Colombia and Venezuela, but some 150 illegal shortcuts, many of which end right in front of the official crossing. Author: Eline van Nes (Maicao, Colombia ) mkg/jm (EFE, Reuters, AFP, dpa, AP) Every evening, DW sends out a selection of the day's news and features. Sign up here.