Former Audi Chief Executive Rupert Stadler was indicted Wednesday over his role in the 'dieselgate' emissions-cheating scandal. Prosecutors in Munich filed charges of "fraud, indirect discrimination and false advertising." It is alleged that Stadler was partly responsible for Audi's decision to sell diesel vehicles with illegally-manipulated emission values, which allowed the company to cut costs, and seemingly adhere to regulators' tests. Stadler was arrested in 2018 and forced to quit his post. Send  Facebook   Twitter   google+   Whatsapp   Tumblr   linkedin   stumble   Digg   reddit   Newsvine Permalink https://p.dw.com/p/3DEDy Regulations circumvented He is charged with having knowledge about the manipulation by "the end of September 2015 at the latest," the prosecution said. Despite this, he allowed the process to continue. Two engineers and a former manager also face charges of knowingly selling cars for Audi, Porsche and Volkswagen fitted with so-called "defeat devices." The prosecution estimated over 400,000 such vehicles were sold, mainly in US or European markets. Read more: What the emissions scandal means for the environment Prosecutors must decide if Stadler and the other defendants will stand trial. An Audi spokesperson said it was in the business' interest to reach the conclusion of the case, but stressed the presumption of innocence until proven guilty. Volkswagen group affected Volkswagen (VW) faced questions starting 2015 when it was found their diesel cars were fitted with the "defeat devices." These made it appear that their vehicles were producing less emissions than they actually did. They were able to keep to legal restrictions on diesel emission in test phases, despite emitting much more diesel than is allowed. Former VW boss Martin Winterkorn had charges brought against him in April this year. Send  Facebook   Twitter   google+   Whatsapp   Tumblr   linkedin   stumble   Digg   reddit   Newsvine Permalink https://p.dw.com/p/3GoWM Senior officials at Audi and Porsche, who are owned by the Volkswagen group, also face huge fines, and scrutiny over their knowledge and participation in the affair. jms/rt (dpa, Reuters, AFP) Each evening at 1830 UTC, DW's editors send out a selection of the day's hard news and quality feature journalism. You can sign up to receive it directly here.