The Iranian government said on Monday that it had broken up a CIA spy ring, in the latest sign of increased tensions between Iran, the US and other NATO powers. A statement carried on public television from the Intelligence Ministry in Tehran claimed that they had detained 17 suspected agents. The Fars news agency, nominally independent but considered at least party state-influenced, said that some of them had been given death sentences. "Some were sentenced to death and some to long-term imprisonment," the ministry told reporters. Official: Suspects were Iranians recruited by CIA Iran recently claimed to have exposed a large cyber espionage network which it said was run by the CIA. At a press conference, an intelligence official said that the arrests had taken place over the past months. He did not specifiy how many suspects had been sentenced to capital punishment. In an unusual move, the official did not identify himself at the press gathering. He said that some had been recruited by a "visa trap" scheme, set up by the CIA for Iranians looking to travel to the US. All the suspects were Iranian nationals who had acted independently of one another, he told journalists. "Some were approached when they were applying for a visa, while others had visas from before and were pressured by the CIA in order to renew them." The official added that some of the arrested had worked at nuclear and military facilities, then said that none had succeeded in their missions of sabotage. They had been "employed at sensitive and crucial centers and also the private sector related to them, working as contractors or consultants," he said. The announcement came after months of rapidly escalating confrontation between Tehran and Washington, and other NATO members after US President Donald Trump withdrew from a landmark nuclear deal and imposed economic sanctions, and more recently over the detainment of an oil tanker by British authorities that prompted a retaliatory seizure by Iran. es/msh (AFP, AP, Reuters) Each evening at 1830 UTC, DW's editors send out a selection of the day's hard news and quality feature journalism. You can sign up to receive it directly here.