As far as Monday's German business news headlines were concerned, there was only one show in town: the news that Deutsche Bank was cutting 18,000 jobs amid a radical strategic overhaul. Yet there was other significant German business news. Industrial output figures for May returned to month-on-month growth, rising by 0.3%. Although less than many economists expected and coming off a low base (a decline of 2% in April), it nonetheless provided a modicum of respite in what is becoming an increasingly jittery time for the German economy. On Friday, a key indicator for Germany's economically crucial manufacturing sector continued a trend that has been furrowing more than a few Teutonic brows of late. Manufacturing orders in Germany dropped by 2.2% month on month and by 8.6% from the same month in 2018. The drop was much sharper than many economists had expected. So striking were the figures that they sparked a fall in government borrowing costs, as investors priced in the likelihood of the ECB buying up bonds in a new round of monetary easing. Germany's economic might is largely based on its export power, so can this pattern of weak figures simply be blamed on the current ruptures afflicting the global trade cycle? One thing that is clear is that the mood is low. Sentix, a research group which measures investor sentiment, says confidence in Germany has hit its lowest level on the index in a decade. "A recession looks unavoidable," said Patrick Hussy, the group's director. Send  Facebook   Twitter   google+   Whatsapp   Tumblr   linkedin   stumble   Digg   reddit   Newsvine Permalink https://p.dw.com/p/3BFr8 Not just Trump to blame Technically speaking, Germany avoided a recession late last year by the narrowest of margins. A recession is defined as two successive quarters of contraction, and following a dip in Q3 last year, the economy registered 0.0% growth in Q4. But a persistent weakening in the manufacturing sector continues to stalk the country's economy. In May, foreign orders at German manufacturers fell by 4.3% month on month, with orders from beyond the eurozone falling by almost 6%. The fall "did not really surprise us," Ralph Wiechers, chief economist with Germany's Mechanical Engineering Industry Association (VDMA), told DW. He says that the latest drop continues a downward cycle that has been evident for some time. "You can see the continuous development that the order intake is falling, also when measured against the previous year's figure." Close to half of Germany's €1.6 trillion ($1.79 trillion) export empire is built on machines which it sells all over the world. But according to Wiechers, trade headwinds are not the only cause of the slide. "We have different causes," he said. Overall, the mechanical engineering sector is experiencing a typical cyclical downturn, after almost a decade of a cyclical upswing. "That's all normal in our business, that doesn't cause anyone concern." But there are also domestic factors. Domestically, he says there is a major reluctance to invest in the automobile industry at present, with manufacturers putting off decisions due to the profound changes taking place in that sector. "They are holding back because they do not know exactly which technological direction they will be going in." Rough trade But there's no getting away from the trade issue. Aside from turbulence with the US, Wiechers says German manufacturing exports are now at "zero growth" in China, and that in general it is declining across Asia. "We're not the only ones who suffer from it." Roland Döhrn of RWI Essen, an economic think tank, agrees. "Except for some special cases — e.g. the trade measures against Iran — we hitherto experience predominantly the indirect effects of a more protectionist mood," he told DW. "Exporting companies have become more cautious to enter foreign markets and they have revised their investment plans. Thus global investment in machinery is receding, hitting the German producers of machinery." But even accounting for a slide in German manufacturing, does it automatically follow that it will spill over into the wider economy? The vital signs still don't look terrible after all — consistently low unemployment, reasonably steady growth rates and a whopping budget surplus. "Currently the German economy is influenced by two diverging trends," said Döhrn. "On the one hand, the manufacturing industries are facing headwinds. On the other hand, the construction and the services sectors continue to be strong, benefiting from incomes still rising, low interest rates, and increasing public demand." The possibility remains that future agreements will ultimately mitigate some of the damage done to trade. "But of course an economy with a large export sector is vulnerable," said Döhrn. Although he says that Germany has become less dependent than it once was on its export sector, due to the strengthening of domestic demand. The German economy faces longer-term questions over its switch to new technologies, such as e-mobility Before the new world comes Beyond the question of recession in the short-term, a deeper question hangs over the entire discussion — Germany's longer-term competitiveness in an age of Industry 4.0, electromobility, artificial intelligence and all the other paradigm shifts which creep steadily closer toward mainstream reality. "Not all negative developments in German manufacturing are a consequence of trade conflicts," said Döhrn. "The problems in the automotive sector also seem to be structural, such as the aftermath of Dieselgate and difficulties with conversion to e-mobility." Wiechers remains optimistic that Germany's mechanical engineering industry will continue to be a critical force in a strong German economy and the new economic and industrial world which is being built. "But the exciting question becomes: How quickly will the new world come and how long will it take for the old one to break off?" he asked. "Because there can be a gap if the old one falls off before the new one has arrived." The night before opening, the exhibition halls are a blur of activity; saws and hammers are at the ready as the various stands are put together. This is a night for the builders, one of whom is pictured here. Elsewhere, packs of cleaners buzz around, organizing and disposing of the many tons of packaging material and waste. By Monday morning, everything is ready and the visitors can come in. The organizers are expecting up to 200,000 people. That's much less than during the fair's heyday, when up to 500,000 would regularly come. An arguably more important number is the amount of trade fair contacts made between those exhibiting and attending. The organizers reckon there are around 5 million of those. Nobody has counted them all, but it's clear that many thousands of robots are on hand to help out at what is the biggest industrial fair in the world. They come in all shapes and sizes and they are getting smarter, not to mention more tame and easier to work with. When humans and robots work together on something, safety is obviously of paramount importance. The robot pictured here, developed at the Karlsruhe Institute of Technology (KIT), has several sensors which ensure that the robot retreats or is halted when a safety distance is exceeded. Christian Trapp is an engineer with the automation firm Festo. He and his colleagues have developed a self-learning work-aid robot. Controlled via eye detection, voice control, remote control, VR glasses and sensors on clothes, the machine learns on the job. Mexico is the first Latin American country to be a partner country of the Hanover Fair. There are 150 Mexican exhibitors there, and the country's president, Enrique Peña Nieto, opened the industrial show with German Chancellor Angela Merkel. Heard at the exchange of jerseys was the sentiment that the only wall Mexico needs any time soon will be when they play Germany in the forthcoming World Cup. The Hanover Trade Fair has long been an important port of call for large IT firms, such as Microsoft. Pictured here is a corn sorting machine from Swiss firm Bühler. Using a cloud-based solution, it can isolate harmful corn kernels contaminated with aflatoxins, a naturally occurring fungal toxin that can be highly dangerous if it enters the food chain. If electric cars are to become a common feature of German roads, the country will need a comprehensive network of efficient charging stations. The industrial company ABB already knows electricity; now it is bringing that expertise to the road. The charging station pictured behind the car here puts more power in, with greater range and for less charging time than many current alternatives. E-mobility is nothing new in some quarters. The electric cart has been around for decades, especially as a means of transport in factories. Jungheinrich, a manufacturer of forklift trucks and other warehouse vehicles, has a lot of experience with battery technology because many of these vehicles are electric. This one can pull as much as 28 tons behind it. The German robot firm Kuka, now under Chinese ownership, is a world market leader thanks to its increasingly intelligent industrial robots. Now the firm is developing robots for the home. The prototypes, named "I do", can bring you coffee, operate as a games console and even as an air conditioning machine. With so many robots, servers, computers and other digital applications in operation, the possibility of errors grows in proportion. So what kind of issues might crop up when things go wrong in the factory of the future? Simply turn it off and on again? Send everyone home? Whatever happens, jobs on the IT 24/7 hotline are unlikely to go away any time soon. Author: Henrik Böhme (aos)