To death and taxes we can now add transfer speculation hanging over a big European club in preseason. Gossip may be par for the course, but the circus that surrounds Neymar, and the expectations on Paris Saint-Germain, mean the pressure is building at the Ligue Un club before the real stuff has even begun. While the rape case against the Brazilian superstar was closed on Monday, he was the center of attention for more familiar reasons after PSG beat Sydney FC in a friendly in China on Tuesday. Neymar has made little secret of his desire to return to Barcelona but his coach, Thomas Tuchel, would not be drawn on the future of his injured forward, saying he had "no news" on the world's most expensive player. "For me, he's our player... it (his future) is a question between him and the club," was all the German tactician would say. Sacrifice required With Saturday's Trophee des Champions (Super Cup) match against a Rennes side that shocked the Qatari-backed outfit in winning the French Cup last season on the horizon, the former Borussia Dortmund head coach urged his side to start pulling in the same direction. "It's a question of team effort, the intensity that we are willing to give, the closeness that we play all together against the ball, the sacrifices that we are willing to make. "If we are willing to make sacrifices, if we are willing to go over all obstacles, then for sure we are ready. But if we have big spaces, if we don't all play together, for sure we will not be ready." The openness of Tuchel's side and a disconnect between his all-star front three, which also features Kylian Mbappe and Edinson Cavani, and the rest of the team has been a problem in the Champions League, the only prize on which PSG are truly judged. The capital city club have failed to get past the round of 16 in the last three seasons and were dumped out at the Parc des Princes by a distinctly average Manchester United side last term. Mixed bag for Draxler Julian Draxler, who has been forced to reinvent himself in a more central role since the arrival of Neymar, would potentially be among the beneficiaries if the Brazilian were to return to the Catalan side. He too has been linked with a move away and admits the Champions League failures bother him. "It's two-and-a-half years now since I arrived and I won a lot of (domestic) titles so I am happy about that," Draxler said on Monday. "I became a better player than I was before, so that's positive, but what is negative is what we achieved in the Champions League. Julian Draxler has mixed feelings about his time in Paris "We did not go far in the Champions League and that was one of the goals when I signed...It hurts a lot, it hurts still that we did not go through," the 25-year-old said. Although Draxler also lauded some of his attacking teammates, he admitted that sometimes the egos attached to the talent can be difficult to deal with. Egos come in to play "All of them are exceptional players," said the former Schalke and Wolfsburg man. "But of course they have their own minds, their own heads, they live football, they want to score every game, so they have an ego. "So sometimes it's not easy for the whole team, but if you are lucky enough to play alongside these players, it's just a pleasure every day." At a club as tumultuous as the Ligue Un winners, proving yourself each season is a given. Draxler expects more from himself this campaign with his spot in Joachim Löw's Germany XI far from secure and Euro 2020 on the horizon. "I am almost 26 and I think the best years of my career are coming now, I hope so," he said. "Now I am at a good age: I have experience but I am still young. Hopefully the fans and the club will see the best version of Julian in the next season." Those fans will also want to see the best of PSG in Europe. With or without Neymar. Robben's talent came to the attention of the football world at PSV, but it was Chelsea where he really established himself as a star in the making. At Stamford Bridge he won two Premier League titles, an FA Cup and League Cup in three fruitful years, mostly under Jose Mourinho. Robben left for Real Madrid, where he stayed for two years. However, it was at Bayern where he achieved legend status. Robben picked up silverware in his first season at Bayern, having signed in the summer of 2009 from Real Madrid. Secured under coach Louis van Gaal, it was to be the first of eight Bundesliga titles as Robben's career coincided with an unprecedented run of domestic success for the Bavarians. One thing missing from Arjen Robben's personal trophy cabinet is international silverware, but he came within touching distance at the 2010 World Cup. Having been the driving force behind the Netherlands' push to the final in South Africa, hero status beckoned when Robben was one-on-one against Spain goalkeeper Iker Casillas from the spot. Robben missed and Spain went on to win in extra time. Cutting in from the right and bending a shot inside the far post, Robben had one signature move and perfected it over the years. Defenders knew what he was going to do, but his speed, strength and close control often made him impossible to stop and cemented his reputation as one of the most effective "inverted wingers". For all of his obvious talents, Robben had a reputation for hitting the turf a little too easily. The (flying) Dutchman was once called him a "good diver" by Arsene Wenger after a particularly bad one against Arsenal. A quick internet search of "Robben diver" will offer some examples. You be the judge. When you think of Robben, you immediately think of Ribery. At their peak, the pair were the best wingers in Europe and have been a key part of Bayern's dominance during the past decade. If Robben didn't get you from the right, Ribery would from the left. Hence, the term 'Robbery'. Robben's finest moment not only in a Bayern shirt but in his career came in London in 2013. Facing their bitter domestic rivals Borussia Dortmund in European football showpiece event, Robben latched onto a flick by Franck Ribery and danced his way through the Dortmund defense to score the winner. The greatest moment of his career. Like Franck Ribery, the final league game of the season against Eintracht Frankfurt was to prove Robben's last in the Bundesliga. And like so many before, it ended in a Bayern win and a Robben goal. Having seen Ribery score six minutes earlier, Robben made sure he wasn't left out, and chalked up Bayern's fifth. That was his 99th Bundesliga goal, just one short of a century. Robben's final game in the professional game ended with silverware. The German Cup final against RB Leipzig on May 25 at Berlin's Olympiastadion proved to be the final hurrah as Robben, a 73rd minute substitute, bowed out at the top, confirming his decision to retire just over a month later. Author: Michael Da Silva