Madagascar 2-2 (4-2 on penalties) DR Congo (Amada 9', Andriatsima 77' — Bakambu 21', Mbemba 90') Madagascar's magical tournament rolls on thanks to victory in a penalty shootout after a dramatic 120 minutes in Alexandria. Madagascar, who have been the surprise of the tournament, took an early lead when Ibrahim Amada's rasping, curling shot from outside the box flew in off the post. The DR Congo recovered though, when Cedric Bakambu got on the end of Ngonda Muzinga's deep ball into the box. Andria missed a good chance for Madagascar before the hour mark, and with just over 15 minutes to go Britt Assombalonga did the same inside the box for DR Congo. Three minutes later, Faneva Andriatsima thought he had won it for "The Barea" (a species of zebu cattle) when he bravely sent a diving header into the net at the near post. DR Congo thought they had turned the game with their late equalizer But there was more drama to come. In the final minute, Chancel Mbemba rose highest to power a header home and send the game into extra time. Mbemba nearly added another header in extra time, but Melvin Adrien made a brilliant diving save to keep the score level. In the shoot-out, Wolfsburg's Marcel Tisserand fired the DR Congo's first kick miles over the bar to give Madagascar an early advantage. It was one they wouldn't relinquish either. Converting four straight penalties, Madagascar put the pressure on Yannick Bolasie but the Premier League player fired over to send the tournament underdogs through. Guinea 0-3 Algeria (Belaili 24', Mahrez 57', Ounas 82') Two finely-taken goals from Youcef Belaili and Riyad Mahrez set Algeria on the way to a comfortable 3-0 win over Guinea as they reached the Africa Cup of Nations quarter-finals on Sunday, reaffirming their status as one of the favorites for the title. While the previous five last 16 ties had produced a mixture of shocks, drama and comebacks, Sunday's match was straightforward as Algeria, yet to concede a goal, won their fourth straight match at the tournament. Belaili broke the deadlock after playing a one-two with Baghdad Bounedjah in the 24th minute and Mahrez, with some sublime control, lashed home the second just before the hour. Substitute Adam Ounas added the third on the break in the 82nd minute. Algeria, whose only title came in 1990, will face either Ivory Coast or Mali in the quarter-finals.