Former Audi Chief Executive Rupert Stadler was indicted Wednesday over his role in the "Dieselgate" emissions-cheating scandal. Prosecutors in Munich filed charges of "fraud, indirect discrimination and false advertising." It is alleged that Stadler was partly responsible for Audi's decision to sell diesel vehicles with illegally manipulated emission values, which allowed the company to cut costs while cheating on regulators' tests. In a press statement, prosecutors said the former Audi boss knew about the emissions manipulation at the end of September 2015 at the latest, but nevertheless allowed, or failed to prevent, the sale of affected Audi and Volkswagen vehicles. Stadler's lawyer said that he would fight the charges, adding that he will issue a statement after comprehensively studying the allegations. Read more:Arrested Audi chief forced to leave Volkswagen Group Send  Facebook   Twitter   google+   Whatsapp   Tumblr   linkedin   stumble   Digg   reddit   Newsvine Permalink https://p.dw.com/p/3N6am 'Defeating' emissions tests Two engineers and a former manager also face charges of knowingly selling cars for Audi, Porsche and Volkswagen fitted with "defeat devices." The prosecution estimated that over 400,000 such vehicles were sold, mainly in the US or European markets. Defeat devices are software that allow vehicles to appear to be meeting regulatory emissions requirements under lab conditions, when they actually produce many times more harmful gases. Read more: What the emissions scandal means for the environment Prosecutors must now decide if Stadler and the other defendants will stand trial. Courts in Braunschweig and Munich are investigating 69 individuals whom they believe may have been involved in the scandal. An Audi spokesperson said it was in the company's interest to clarify the issues that led to the diesel crisis. "Until this has happens, the presumption of innocence must prevail," he said. Read more:Dieselgate: Four Audi managers charged in the US over emissions scandal About two weeks after Volkswagen admitted behind closed doors to US environmental regulators that it had installed cheating software in some 11 million of its diesel vehicles worldwide, the Environmental Protection Agency shared that information with the public. It was September 18, 2015. The ensuing crisis would eventually take a few unexpected turns. Volkswagen's then-CEO Martin Winterkorn (above) had little choice but to step down several days after news of the scandal broke. In September, he tendered his resignation, but retained his other posts within the Volkswagen Group. Winterkorn's successor was Matthias Müller. Until taking the reins at VW, Müller had been the chairman at Porsche, a VW subsidiary. Regulators in the US weren't the only ones investigating VW. Authorities in Lower Saxony, the German state in which VW is based, were also scrutinizing the company. On October 8, state prosecutors raided VW's headquarters along with several other corporate locations. On January 4, 2016, the US government filed a lawsuit against VW in Detroit, accusing the German automaker of fraud and violations of American climate protection regulations. The lawsuit sought up to $46 billion for violations of the Clean Air Act. In March, the head of VW in the US, Michael Horn, resigned. In the initial days and weeks after the scandal broke, he was the one US authorities turned to for information. He issued an official apology on behalf of the automaker, asking for the public's forgiveness. On October 25, a US judge approved a final settlement that would have VW pay $15.3 billion. In addition, affected cars would be retrofitted with better, non-deceptive hardware and software, or else VW would buy them back completely from customers. When dieselgate first emerged in 2015, analysts said it was likely other car makers were also cheating tests. But it wasn't until 2017 that other companies were targeted in probes. In July, German authorities launched investigations into luxury car makers Porsche and Daimler for allegedly cheating emissions tests. Others, such as Audi and Chrysler, have also been hit by similar allegations. Despite dieselgate, VW has managed to keep the emissions scandal from utterly tarnishing its image. According to several polls, between 55 to 67 percent of Germans continue to trust the automaker. In the US, polls show that roughly 50 percent still believe the German company produces worthwhile vehicles. In late January, however, VW suffered another heavy blow over reports that the company experimented on monkeys and made the animals inhale diesel fumes. To make matters worse, a separate experiment that had humans inhale relatively harmless nitrogen dioxide was revealed at the same time. Some media wrongly interpreted this to mean humans were also inhaling toxic fumes. Author: Dirk Kaufmann Volkswagen group responsible The scandal came to light in 2015 when it was found that Volkswagen fitted its diesel cars with the "defeat devices." These made it appear that the vehicles were producing fewer emissions than they actually did. They were able to keep to legal restrictions on diesel emissions in test phases, despite emitting much more than is allowed. Former VW boss Martin Winterkorn had charges brought against him in April this year. Senior executives at Audi and Porsche, which are owned by the Volkswagen group, also face huge fines over their knowledge of and participation in the affair. Audi was fined €800 million ($892 million) in October over the Dieselgate scandal. It is estimated the scandal has cost the company around €3.4 billion since 2015. Investigators pursued Audi over V6 and V8 engines it built into its own vehicles, VW's own-brand cars and models from fellow subsidiary Porsche as well as over Audi vehicles fitted with cheating VW-built engines. In total, the case dealt with almost 5 million cars worldwide, built between 2004 and 2018. Send  Facebook   Twitter   google+   Whatsapp   Tumblr   linkedin   stumble   Digg   reddit   Newsvine Permalink https://p.dw.com/p/3DEDy wmr, sri, jns/jm (dpa, Reuters, AFP) Each evening at 1830 UTC, DW's editors send out a selection of the day's hard news and quality feature journalism. You can sign up to receive it directly here.