Spain's caretaker prime minister, Pedro Sanchez, on Monday accused the far-left Podemos (We Can) party of breaking off negotiations on forming a new government, just over a week before he is to face a confidence vote in Parliament. Sanchez accused Podemos' leader Pablo Iglesias of "unilaterally" ending the talks. "Mr Iglesias completely closed the door to any type of negotiation, in a unilateral rupture of the talks," the head of PSOE, the Spanish Socialist Workers' Party, confirmed. Sanchez is seeking support from Podemos and other regional parties for a minority government after he and his Socialists won April elections but failed to gain the absolute parliamentary majority necessary to govern alone. The Socialists have ruled out a formal coalition with Podemos, but Sanchez last week said he was ready to give some ministerial posts to people deemed as acceptable by the far-left party. The proposal has been rejected by Iglesias when he said the notion was "idiotic," with Podemos making its support conditional on some of its actual leaders being included in the Cabinet. Read more: Spanish Franco-era 'stolen babies' campaigner finds her family Confidence votes in the balance In an interview on SER radio on Monday, Sanchez called on two major rightist parties to abstain in the confidence vote next Tuesday to allow him to win and lead a minority government. If he fails to gain an absolute majority of 176 voters in the 350-seat lower house, another vote will be held two days later where he needs only a simple majority. If no new government can be formed, new elections would probably be held in the autumn. If called, they would be the fourth in four years in Spain. Sanchez, 47, came to power in June 2018 after a no-confidence motion filed by the Socialists against the then conservative Prime Minister Mariano Rajoy was passed, partly with the support of Podemos. Each year between June 27 and 30, thousands of locals and tourists participate in the annual Wine Battle in Spain's Rioja wine-growing region. The event is known around the area as La Batalla del Vino de Haro, or the Wine Battle of Haro. Haro is one of the most important wine producers in the region. Up to 40% of La Rioja's vineyards are located in the town. The area is completely devoted to producing wine, which contributes majorly to its economy. People throw wine at each other, with organizers saying the aim is to "cover your neighbor in wine as quickly and completely as you can." Participants may use wine-filled water pistols, garden sprays or buckets and party until the 70,000 liters (15,397 imperial gallons) of free wine run out. The wine fight starts on the eve of June 28. The whole town of Haro gathers on the streets, from children to grandparents. They party all night in the picturesque Spanish squares. One of the wine battle rules is that at no point during the fight can participants stop laughing and singing. The fight continues with traditional Spanish dances. The event is held to celebrate St. Peter and La Rioja's plentiful wine output. Tourists from as far away as Australia participate in the popular fiesta. Author: Shamil Shams Nevertheless, Monday's declaration that talks were dead was refuted by a top Podemos official. "We were surprised to hear that the prime minister said that negotiations had collapsed. For our part, this is not the case," Pablo Echenique told laSexta TV. tj, jsi/ng (AP, AFP, Reuters) DW sends out a selection of the day's news and features. Sign up here.