Germany is just coming out of this summer's latest heat wave. For two consecutive days, the country recorded all-time temperature records, reaching 42.6 degrees Celsius (108.7 F) in Lower Saxony. This resulted in train air-conditioning systems malfunctioning, tracks being bent out of shape and delayed travel. A nuclear power plant had to be taken offline after the coolant system got too hot. DW journalists from around the world shared their experiences growing up in warmer climates to help Germans prepare for the next heat wave. Li Shitao, of DW's China desk, said humidity made living in Shanghai difficult. He said June and August were the worst months in the Chinese coastal metropolis. "During the summer holidays,” he said, "I basically had a shower every hour." As a child, he lived in a little apartment with his family. Its wall faced west, meaning that the sun heated their home intensely during the afternoon and evening. "It was like living in an oven," he said. He remembers one thing in particular from this time: One night, he woke up as his father was wiping his back with a wet towel, trying to cool him off. Send  Facebook   Twitter   google+   Whatsapp   Tumblr   linkedin   stumble   Digg   reddit   Newsvine Permalink https://p.dw.com/p/3Mk7h By law, in the 1980s children in Shanghai did not have to attend school when temperatures exceeded 35 degrees Celsius. And adults didn't have to go to work. "There was a conspiracy theory that the meteorological service deliberately kept the official temperature just below this threshold," he said. Now that most workplaces have air conditioning, this rule no longer exits, of course. These days, most people have air-conditioning in their homes, though keeping these systems running is costly. Many older people spend their time in air-conditioned malls to cope with the heat, Li said — even when they have no other reason to be there. IKEA recently told customers to stop sleeping on sofas and beds on display. Anyone feeling too hot may want to emulate Chinese men, who for decades have sported what has been dubbed the "Beijing Bikini." They simply roll up their t-shirts and expose their bellies to cool off. A sizable gut can prevent shirts from slipping back down. Chinese authorities disapprove of this fashion trend and have started issuing verbal warnings and even handing out fines to men found exposing their bellies in this way. Some residents sleep in the streets when the nights get too hot indoors in Shanghai 'Like northern India' Germany's heat wave reminded DW business journalist Ashutosh Pandey of home. "The warm breeze was just like northern India," he said. Pandey nevertheless finds German summers more pleasant than those in India: Germany has many more trees — and, therefore, much more shade. And, he said, it's less humid in Germany. Heat-related deaths — especially in northern India and around the capital, New Delhi — are common. The hot, dry and gusty winds called Loo are particularly dreaded. They tend to be between 45 and 50 degrees Celsius, which is why it is important to cover your head and face with a cloth, Pandey said. Otherwise, "you risk getting a heat stroke." Though May and June are extremely hot months in northern India, life goes on as normal. "We are used to working in such temperatures," Pandey said. In the afternoons, when it is the hottest, people tend to stay indoors. And, to keep things bearable, all rooms tend to be equipped with fans. It is a relatively new phenomenon that Indian households have air-conditioning. But the proliferation is putting a major strain on the country's power grid. Pandey said cucumbers and buttermilk were popular in the Indian heat. A cooling white cotton cloth is a common form of relief in India when temperatures spike Beat the heat In Cameroon, meanwhile, fruit is a hit, said Mariama Kouotou, of the DW Akademie. Mangoes, pineapples and the like are chopped up and sold on the streets. Anyone who does not observe a dress code opts for loosely fitting clothes. Many people "take umbrellas with them as parasols," Kouotou said. And her family's special tip is to treat yourself to a cold footbath once you get home. Treat vendors do brisk business on hot days in Cameroon. Between December and February, when Cameroon gets the hottest, everyone tries to run errands and schedule appointments before noon. "People are up and about early in the morning," Kouotou said. The last time she stayed in the capital, Yaounde, she would attend 6 a.m. fitness courses at the local gym — which opens at 4 a.m. But she also remembers that she and other schoolchildren were regularly made to exercise in the heat, which often caused nosebleeds. In the Netherlands, one municipality is spraying salted water on its roads to stop them from melting or cracking in the extreme heat. The salt extracts moisture from the air, which in turn cools the asphalt. Much of Germany's autobahn network has asphalt coated with a special substance that absorbs moisture more quickly, according to local authorities. Austria's railway network has deployed an army of workers to paint a 5-kilometer stretch of rail track white. It wants to test whether the paint will help the steel tracks, which can expand and buckle during a heatwave, to stay cooler. The metal can rise to 70 degrees Celcius. Rail travelers near Blundenz, about 60 kilometers south of Lindau on Lake Constance shouldn't notice any difference. Businesses face potential revenue losses if consumers sit out the sticky weather at home. Germany's Bayreuth Festival saw a wave of returned tickets for performances of composer Richard Wagner's operas due to a lack of air conditioning in the theater. The Berlin Dungeon, on the other hand, helped tourists to stay cool by filling coffins with icy water and inviting visitors to dunk their heads. Europe's nuclear power stations rely on water from nearby rivers or seas to cool reactors used for electricity generation. A power plant at Grohnde, in central Germany, was due to be shut down on Friday afternoon because the water in the nearby Weser river was thought to be too hot. Lower Saxony's environment ministry said the plant would remain closed until the river temperature has fallen. In the German city of Wuppertal, a water cannon truck has been put to what environmental activists would say is a much better use. Some 40,000 liters of water was sprayed on the side of roads to keep the much-loved trees alive, which city officials said also aids road safety. After all, falling dead trees are a danger to traffic. City workers have also distributed 400 water sacks to younger trees. The heatwave has prompted a continent not known for air conditioning to consider, in unison, installing the temperature cooling devices. According to Google Trends, searches for air conditioning (Klimagerät in German, or climatisation in French) and similar terms have skyrocketed over the past week, along with "pubs with air conditioning near me" in Britain, which spiked 2,100%. During exceedingly hot temperatures, European zoos have begun freezing their animals' food to help them stay cool. Fruit, vegetables and even fish have been turned into popsicles on which the animals can feast. In the southwestern German state of Baden-Württemberg, the public has been asked to watch out for grazing horses, cattle and sheep left without sufficient water and shade. Author: Nik Martin DW's editors send out a selection of news and features. Sign up to receive it here.