Pakistan's tribal region is undertaking its first-ever democratic election on Saturday, with newly formed districts sending representatives to a provincial assembly for the first time. This loosely organized region onPakistan's northwest frontier with Afghanistanwas formerly called the Federally Administrated Tribal Areas (FATA). This rural mountainous area has long been seen by Washington and the West as a launching pad into Afghanistan for Islamist insurgents. In May 2018, the districts in FATA were merged into Khyber Pakhtunkhwa province, ending 150 years of draconian colonial-era governance under a system called "frontier crimes regulation." Now there is hope that bringing these areas into a democratic political process will promote stability. However, the tribal region, home to 6 million people, has always ruled by tribal law, with councils of tribal elders holding the real political power. Whether elected representatives can merge democratic governance with traditional social mores remains to be seen. There are also conflicts between political forces commanding local loyalty and Pakistan's politically powerful military. Election troubles for the Pashtuns Although people in the region are eager to participate in the election, there have been problems with democratic representation in the run-up to election day. Afridi's campaign office is in the town of Jamrud in Khyber District, northwest Pakistan. Here she coordinates events in local villages. She is running a door-to-door campaign in the villages, visiting all tribal elders, and asking men to break from the past and let women decide on their own who to vote for. She is running against 12 male opponents. The election is scheduled for July 20. A little girl wears a campaign sticker. Afridi told DW that running for election in a male-dominated society will be difficult, but she wants to provide an example for girls and women by displaying confidence, courage and leadership. Although women are not allowed to join her at campaign events in villages, local children often come along to help. Forty-year-old Afridi meets with tribal elders in their "Hujra," which is a traditional place for men to sit and discuss. She is the first woman to ever visit a Hujra in the area, as females are usually forbidden entry. A 60-year-old tribal leader told DW that he was impressed at how Afridi is convincing elders to vote for her, and that there are certain problems that women can solve better. Local shopkeepers gather around Afridi, as she gives a campaign speech at a market and makes her case for why she should represent the district in the regional assembly. Her style of door-to-door campaigning and directly asking for votes in villages, markets and Hujras is a new approach that she thinks will succeed. Young boys paste Afridi's campaign stickers on a car. Children are helping the campaign by setting up posters and signs in villages and homes in her district. In homes where women are not allowed to have their picture taken with Afridi, children are eager to be photographed. Afridi told DW that her campaign doesn't go after the competition. Her only wish is to win a seat in the assembly and advocate for the region's women. A social worker from the tribal areas told DW that society can create problems for tribal women; women aren't encouraged to get educated and stand up for their rights. He hopes that Afridi will win and make the district proud. Afridi's campaign makes a statement for women in a region where girls are not allowed to attend school and men tell women who to vote for. Here a young student takes a selfie with Afridi. He told DW he supports her and will encourage his female family members to vote for her. "We believe this will be a positive change in tribal areas and we are in dire need of female candidates in the assembly." Author: Saba Rehman (Peshawar) The Pashtuns are an ethnic group native to northwest Pakistan and the northeastern Afghanistan. In the past decade, tens of thousands of Pashtuns civilians in the region have been killed, and millions displaced, by the Taliban insurgency and military operations. The Pashtun Tahaffuz Movement (PTM) is a civil rights movement that has widespread support among Pashtuns in the region, and espouses secular and liberal values. However, the Pakistani government and the country's all-powerful military are coming down hard on the PTM. In May, two PTM lawmakers were arrested during a clash between PTM protesters and soldiers at a checkpoint in North Waziristan that left 13 people dead. The military claimed that the protesters opened fire first, but video footage purportedly showed that they were unarmed. Since the violent clash, the PTM is experiencing a violent crackdown. Dozens of their top leaders have been arrested and their supporters are facing immense pressure from the government. Pakistan's Election Commission says that the PTM is not a registered political party, although they have registered candidates for the election. Manzoor Pashteen, the movement's leader, believes that the Pakistani military is behind the crackdown. Read more: Pakistan's Manzoor Pashteen: 'Pashtuns are fed up with war' The PTM gained prominence last January after protest broke out over the extrajudicial killing of a young Pashtun man in the southern port city of Karachi. The movement is campaigning to end extrajudicial killings. It also conducts landmine clearance operations and opposes use of military violence against civilians. This week during a committee session, a senator from that Muslim League-Nawaz (PML-N), criticized the lack of media coverage for the election. "The media is showing no interest in the first ever election in the tribal areas, in this situation we cannot trust this election will be transparent," said Senator Pervaiz Rashid "The PTM leadership is not allowed to appear in the media, two of its elected leaders Mohsin Dawar and Ali Wazir were arrested, and a crackdown is going on against their workers." Read more: Pashtun movement leader: 'Pakistani army is afraid of our popularity' A tense environment Due to the tense security situation in the region, a military presence is planned for the polling stations. However, the move has stirred reservations from opposition parties who are saying that the election results will be manipulated in favor of Prime Minister Imran Khan's ruling Pakistan Tehreek-e-Insaf (PTI, Movement for Justice) party. The Haqqani Network was formed by Jalaluddin Haqqani, who fought against Soviet forces in Afghanistan in the 1980s. In 1995, the Haqqani Network allied with the Taliban and the two groups captured the Afghan capital Kabul in 1996. In 2012, the US designated the group a terrorist organization. On September 4, 2018, the Taliban announced that Jalaluddin passed away after a long illness. Jalaluddin Haqqani was born in 1939 in the Afghan province Paktia. He studied at Darul Uloom Haqqania, which was founded in 1947 by the father of one of Pakistan's most prominent religious leaders, Maulana Sami ul Haq. Darul Uloom Haqqania is known for its alleged ties with the Taliban and other extremist groups. Jalaluddin was made minister for Afghan tribal affairs under the Taliban rule. He remained in the post until the US toppled the Taliban regime in 2001. After the Taliban leader Mullah Omar, Jalaluddin was considered the most influential militant figure in Afghanistan. Jalaluddin also had close links with the former al Qaeda leader, Osama bin Laden. Security experts say the command center of the group is based in Miranshah city of Pakistan's North Waziristan region along the Afghan border. US and Afghan officials claim the Haqqani Network is backed by the Pakistani military, a charge denied by Pakistani authorities. Washington says the group's fighters launch attacks on foreign and local troops and civilians inside Afghanistan. It is believed that Jalaluddin Haqqani died in 2015, but his group denied those reports at the time. The network is now headed by Sirajuddin Haqqani, Jalaluddin's son. Sirajuddin is also the deputy chief of the Taliban. Although there isn't much credible information available about Sirajuddin Haqqani, security experts say he spent his childhood in the Pakistani city of Miranshah. He studied at Darul Uloom Haqqania, situated in Peshawar's suburbs. Sirajuddin is believed to be an expert on military affairs. Some analysts say Sirajuddin's views are more hard line than his father's. One of Jalaluddin's sons is Anas Haqqani, whose mother hailed from the United Arab Emirates. He is currently in the custody of the Afghan government and is facing the death penalty. The Haqqani Network has warned Kabul of dire consequences if Afghan authorities hang Anas Haqqani. Research institutes and Afghan affairs experts say the group has between three and ten thousand fighters. The network allegedly receives most of its funding from the Gulf countries. The Haqqani Network is also involved in kidnappings and extortion through which it funds its operations. The Haqqanis have close relations with other regional and international terrorist organizations such as al Qaeda, the Tehreek-i-Taliban Pakistan (TTP), Lashkar-e-Taiba and Central Asian Islamist groups. Jalauddin Haqqani was not only close to bin Laden, but also had ties with al Qaeda's current chief Ayman al-Zawahiri. Author: Atif Baloch Imran Mukhlis Wazir, a candidate from Pakistan Peoples Party (PPP) in South Waziristan, said he was arrested last month after he spoke out against discrimination against opposition parties. "The opposition parties are discriminated against and facing hurdles while government party has been promoted," he told DW. Ayaz Wazir, a former ambassador hailing from the tribal areas, told DW that the people there want the change that they were promised after the FATA merger last year. Read more: Pakistan: "Media should be accountable to the public, not the government" "They are not getting the rights that they were promised after the merger. And no political leader from any party came in the area to campaign due to security threats, there is a tense environment and people think the elections are rigged already." Rahim Yousafzai, a political analyst based in Peshawar, told DW that some political parties have raised questions about the military presence at polling stations as a method to engineer results. Yousafzai also said that campaigning has been tightly controlled due to security threats. "There has been no political activity seen in the area," he said, adding that the voter turn out for the regional election is expected to remain low. Send  Facebook   Twitter   google+   Whatsapp   Tumblr   linkedin   stumble   Digg   reddit   Newsvine Permalink https://p.dw.com/p/2mKjY