Greece's conservative Nea Dimokratia (New Democracy, or ND) is projected to win Greece's parliamentary elections, beating leftist Prime Minister Alexis Tsipras's Syriza party. Greek interior ministry projections showed ND with 39.7% of the vote, ahead of Syriza's 31.6%. The country's prime minister, Alexis Tsipras, conceded defeat to his opponent on Sunday evening. Leftist Tsipras called Mitsotakis to congratulate him on his victory. A new day dawns New Democracy is led by a 51-year-old Harvard graduate, Kyriakos Mitsotakis, whose party has promised to be tough on crime in some neighborhoods of Athens where there is a strong anarchist movement. In his first statement after the election, Mitsotakis vowed to bring economic growth, jobs and a better life to Greeks. He called on the hundreds of thousands who emigrated during the country's financial crisis to return home. "A painful cycle has closed," Mitsotakis said in a televised address. "I will not fail to honor your hopes." The result was expected to hand Mitsotakis an outright majority with 155-167 seats in the 300-seat legislative house. The exit polls showed Tsipras's party will have up to 82 seats. Read more: Alexis Tsipras and his left-wing mandate face uphill battle Jean-Claude Juncker congratulated Mitsotakis for his landslide election win. In a letter published on social media, the outgoing European Commission president said helping Greece get through its financial crisis was one of his commission's "proudest achievements." MeRA25, an anti-austerity party formed by former Greek finance minister Yanis Varoufakis, could elect up to 14 lawmakers. The center-left Movement for Change (KINAL) was expected to win 6-8% of the vote and the Communists (KKE) 5-7%. The far-right Golden Dawn party was amongst a handful of small parties with less than the 3% threshold required to enter the Greek Parliament. Send  Facebook   Twitter   google+   Whatsapp   Tumblr   linkedin   stumble   Digg   reddit   Newsvine Permalink https://p.dw.com/p/3LhZ7 kw/ng (AP, AFP, Reuters) Every evening, DW's editors send out a selection of the day's hard news and quality feature journalism. You can sign up to receive it directly here.