A pair of Australian Christian siblings who refused to pay income tax because it was "against God's will" have been ordered to pay more than AU$2.3 million (US$1.6 million, €1.4 million) after a Tasmanian Supreme Court judge ruled the Bible does not specifically say "thou shalt not pay tax." Fanny Alida Beerepoot and her brother Rembertus Cornelis Beerepoot had refused to pay income tax since 2011 because they believe taxation is a form of ownership, a power they say the Australian government does not have, local media reported. They owed almost AU$930,000 in income tax. "Ownership is vested in almighty God and it's him we serve," the Australian news agency AAP quoted Rembertus as saying. "The Commonwealth of Australia has not been granted the power of ownership because that is vested in almighty God." The pair, who represented themselves, told the Supreme Court of Tasmania they had paid income tax prior to 2011 but a deepened spiritual relationship meant they later realized paying tax was "against God's will," the ABC reported. Read more: 6 facts about Catholic and Protestant influence in Germany 'Two different spheres' In his judgment, Associate Justice Stephen Holt said the two Christian missionaries held the belief "honestly and genuinely" and it was not a ploy to avoid paying taxes. However, he noted the absence of a specific reference in the Bible that supported their argument, according to the ABC. "If you can't find me a passage in scripture or gospel that says 'thou shall not pay tax' then can you see I have difficulty finding a starting point?" Associate Justice Holt asked. "In my view, the Bible effectively said that civil matters and the law of God operate in two different spheres," he added. Justice Holt ordered the Beerepoots to pay an estimated $1.159 million and $1.166 million respectively, to cover income tax debt, administrative costs, interest charges and running balance account deficit debts. Daniel Obinim was 40 when he created an empire with his International God’s Way Church. In a recent interview, he stated that Jesus granted him over 20 houses, eight Range Rovers, five SUVs and three Chryslers. He has built three of the largest churches in Ghana. He has been arrested for hitting a journalist, and whipping a boy and a girl who were in a relationship in front of his congregation. On the African continent evangelical, pentecostal and charismatic churches are attracting the greatest numbers. According to the Washington-based Pew Research Center, there were around 3 million evangelicals in Ghana in 2000, and 5.5 million by 2015. Pentecostals and charismatics numbered around 6.5 million in 2000 and 10 million by 2015. Ghana's streets and crossroads are dotted with signs and advertisements for churches. Many of the churches were founded and are currently managed by just one person, one prophet, or one pastor. Ghanaian church leaders are powerful. Their word travels far and is not limited to Sunday mornings and mid-week services. There are TV channels and web TV channels that reach a large audience far beyond their own congregations. This picture was taken backstage during a live show at pastor Daniel Obinim's OB TV. Each church, from the biggest to the smallest, has a huge sound system. Music played at high volume is part of every service, whether on Sunday or during the all-night services in the middle of the week. The noise can be unbearable for those who are not used to it and for those who live or work nearby. Youth are a strong part of the church community. The evangelical, pentecostal or charismatic churches have a number of similarities: A literal reading of the bible, the emphasis on wealth and wellness, a strong commitment to spreading the Gospel, faith in a divine power for curing illness and injuries, and a belief in miracles. Radio is very important to the pastors and prophets. You can listen to their radio shows all day on different channels. Here, two assistants of Prophet Nigel Gaise are about to go on air at four in the morning. Gaise runs a church called the True Fire Prophetic Ministry. He claims to hear the word of God and is known to make predictions on politics and celebrity news. Author: Tomaso Clavarino (Supported by: Pulitzer Center on Crisis Reporting ) House auctioned after rates unpaid In 2017, the pair had their property at Mole Creek in northern Tasmania auctioned by the council after they refused to pay about $3,000 worth of rates because they said the land belonged to God, AAP reported. "We believe that our heavenly father is sovereign and that he reigns today, thus we worship him and him alone so that his will is established on the earth," they wrote in a letter to council. "You are asking us to bow down to a false god which is something we cannot do." The house was sold to a mystery bidder for $120,000. Every evening at 1830 UTC, DW's editors send out a selection of the day's hard news and quality feature journalism. You can sign up to receive it directly here.