Since July 11, the regular functions of the European satellite navigation system Galileo have no longer been available to users. The European Global Navigation Satellite Systems Agency (GSA) in Prague informed its customers of the failure. Use at your own risk The GSA warns that there is a "degradation on all Galileo satellites" and that "the signals may not be available nor meet the minimum performance levels" promised by Galileo. Customers who nevertheless continue to use devices that calculate their position using Galileo satellites would do so at their "own risk." In a further communication on July 14, the GSA added that the cause of the breakdown was to be found in ground-based infrastructure and not in the satellites themselves. 'Search and Rescue' still works The Search and Rescue (SAR) function, with which ships in distress at sea or injured mountaineers can call for help, continues to function undisturbed, the operating company says. GSA did not comment on the technical cause of the failure, but the company has set up a an "Anomaly Review Board" to discover the error. Read more: Post-Brexit UK won't use EU Galileo satellite system, British PM says Galileo will be fully operational, once it has 30 satellites working in orbit. Galileo behind schedule and over budget Currently, the GSA only offers initial services from Galileo, meaning navigation signals only come from 26 satellites. Once 30 Galileo satellites are in their final orbit and fully deployed by 2020, the European satellite navigation system will go into regular operation. Send  Facebook   Twitter   google+   Whatsapp   Tumblr   linkedin   stumble   Digg   reddit   Newsvine Permalink https://p.dw.com/p/1G0lo This means the European Union's prestigious project is well behind schedule. Initially, Galileo was supposed to be fully operational by 2008. In terms of costs, the EU was also unable to stick to its original plans. In 1999, it had budgeted between 2.2 and 2.9 billion euros for the construction of the system, whereas the EU budget now provides for 7.2 billion euros to be spent on the construction of the system by 2020 — plus a further 3 billion euros for its operation. Better plan for redundancy This failure highlights the vulnerability and risks of satellite navigation systems. Galileo and the Global Positioning System (GPS) in the US, both of which are constantly being upgraded, are to assume important tasks in the field of autonomous driving, flying and shipping in the future. However, if autonomous vehicles, aircraft and ships are dependent on only one navigation system at a time, this could lead to a loss of control in the event of a failure. Many receivers are therefore designed to evaluate signals from several satellite providers, such as Galileo, GPS and Russia's Glonass. More complex systems also use additional locating signals from terrestrial radio systems, such as mobile phone transmitters. This makes them more reliable and less susceptible to interference. Autonomous vehicles also have radar — and often, additional optical sensors — to ensure that there is no sudden collision in the case of incorrect or missing satellite data. Read more: Four more Galileo satellites enter space Before satellites were first launched into space in the mid-20th century, we knew very little about the dynamics of our climate. Today, numerous satellites collect information which helps us piece together the story of our changing planet. In 1985, they helped discover the hole in the ozone layer, and data from space remains key to tackling global warming. Some satellites monitor signs of climate change, such as melting ice caps, rising sea levels and amounts of CO2 in the atmosphere. The Jason-3 satellite (pictured), launched in 2016, can make precise measurements of global sea levels, a key indicator of climate change. The data will give us a stronger understanding of just how our oceans are being affected by increased temperatures. Space technology has paved the way for the development of increasingly sophisticated surveying and monitoring tools which can track everything from deforestation to illegal fishing ships and even oil spills. This way, researchers know exactly when and where environmental — and legal — action needs to be taken. Satellites play a vital role in tracking natural disasters such as hurricanes, wildfires and floods. As well as providing an early warning for those on the ground, they also help authorities track the intensity of the event and understand the scale of the devastation. Monitoring storm systems helps generate better climate models to predict future disasters. Growing plants in space has already taught us valuable lessons which can be applied to sustainable agriculture on Earth. Astronauts on the International Space Station have discovered they can use less water to grow vegetables, and China recently made history by germinating a cotton seed on the far side of the moon. As our planet warms, this knowledge could be vital for farmers. Unfortunately, space technology has also had a negative impact on the environment. Every time a rocket is launched it produces a plume of exhaust smoke filled with bits of soot and a chemical called alumina, which can build up in the stratosphere and deplete the ozone. Space agencies are looking to lessen their use of "ozone-depleting substances" and are researching more eco-friendly fuels. There are currently more than 20,000 trackable pieces of space junk in orbit around Earth, including everything from old rockets to bolts and screws. They're not technically part of Earth's ecosphere, but if we're not careful the junk may become so dense that satellites won't be able to function properly and provide us with the data we so desperately need. Author: Ineke Mules