The European Council proposed German Defense Minister Ursula von der Leyen to become European Commission president, European Council President Donald Tusk said Tuesday. Von der Leyen, a member of German Chancellor Angela Merkel's conservatives (CDU/CSU), would be the first female Commission president if confirmed by the European Parliament. Read more: Who is Ursula von der Leyen, the surprise compromise as European Commission president? Picks for key posts As part of a package deal: Read more: Who is the IMF's Christine Lagarde? Defense Minister Ursula von der Leyen is widely seen as a moderate that leans to the center-right Finding a 'balance' Merkel said von der Leyen's nomination was made unanimously by EU leaders save for one abstention, herself. French President Emmanuel Macron described the package deal as "the fruit of a deep Franco-German entente." Tusk said von der Leyen would have to ensure "geographic balance" with her vice presidential nominations. He said it is now up to the European Parliament to decide whether to support her nomination. Outgoing Commission President Jean-Claude Juncker said "it won't be easy in parliament." 'Deeply disappointing' EU lawmakers criticized the Council's decision to disregard the lead candidate system whereby each bloc picks a nominee for the Commission president. The Greens parliamentary bloc said the deal "fails to respect the lead candidate process and the results of the European elections. We need a political change in Europe." Iratxe Garcia, who leads the Socialists and Democrats bloc (S&D) in the European Parliament, described the nominations as "unacceptable," saying, "Our group has remained firm in the defense of European democracy and the leading candidate process." The S&D's lead candidate, Frans Timmermans, had been in the running to get the nomination ahead of Tuesday's talks. But his name was dropped amid strong resistance from eastern European member states and lawmakers from the largest bloc in the European Parliament, the European Peoples' Party (EPP). The EPP's lead candidate, German conservative Manfred Weber, withdrew his name from the running as talks on Tuesday crystallized on picking von der Leyen. His candidacy became increasingly untenable after Macron refused to endorse him over his relative lack of experience in high office. Read more: What does the European Parliament actually do? What happens next? Von der Leyen's nomination must now be approved by a simple majority in the European Parliament. The ECB head and EU foreign policy chief also require approval from the EU's legislature. The European Council president is the only post which does not require further approval. Outgoing Commission President Juncker is expected to step down on October 31. Every evening, DW's editors send out a selection of the day's hard news and quality feature journalism. You can sign up to receive it directly here. In many night sessions in Brussels and elsewhere, German Chancellor Angela Merkel has restored unity between arguing governments and officials. The European Union pursues a single course, after all. But is it just her course? Her critics in the EU complain about Merkel's power and dominance: Some call her the head of Europe — that is, of course, wrong, formally speaking. When French soldiers march at the Arc de Triomphe, there is no lack of pathos and nationalism. However, the European Union was formed on precisely the idea of overcoming nationalist tendencies and hostilities. For French President Emmanuel Macron, pride in his "Grande Nation" and belief in a new European Union are not contradictions. Macron has positioned himself as a fighter for reforms. Perhaps the girl with the pigtails (center) is currently Europe's biggest rock star. The 16-year-old Greta Thunberg from Sweden has triggered a global movement with Skolstrejk for klimatet (school strike for the climate). In many countries, students do not go to school on Fridays, but instead take to the streets to call on politicians to take action toward climate protection. The Austrian singer Conchita Wurst celebrates her greatest success, her victory at the Eurovision Song Contest 2014 in Copenhagen. The self-described drag queen is the artist Tom Neuwirth — who looks completely different today than he does in this photo. Conchita's success was not only applauded by pop fans, but also by many people who are committed to an open Europe. These are also the faces of Europe: In the Belgian capital, Brussels, xenophobes are demonstrating against displaced people who arrive to Europe as refugees. These riots, in December 2018, came after Belgian officials and other EU leaders signed the non-binding UN migration pact in Marrakesh. This British gentleman's name is Robert Peter Williams. He used to belong to a boy group called Take That; as a solo artist, Robbie Williams became one of the most famous pop singers on the European continent. When he sings "Let Me Entertain You," entire football stadiums filled with fans go wild. Europe is chic — especially in Milan during Milan Fashion Week. And Europe is also diverse. Here, for example, international models can be seen on the catwalk in the classic robes of a German fashion designer: Jil Sander. When the Hamburg woman draws, Europe is always very stylish! A view from above the plenary hall of the European Parliament in Strasbourg. When everyone is here, 751 lawmakers fill the seats. They are elected for five years by citizens of the 28 current member states. The members of the EU Parliament represent the people's will. But, given the diversity of the EU, the question often arises: Who defines that? On the map, Hungary sits to the right of Brussels, far to the right. The reign of Viktor Orban, Hungary's nationalist prime minister, has proved a source of torment for the EU leaders in Brussels. Orban, however, has had domestic success with his anti-immigrant euroskeptic agenda, and he has several allies throughout the bloc. He is a thorn in side of many of his counterparts throughout the EU. The French national football team in training. In 2018, the "blue" world champions were crowned, and Kylian Mbappe (center), with the relaxed smile, scored the decisive goal to win the final against Croatia 4-2. Mbappe is French, his mother comes from Algeria, his father came from Cameroon. Many people in France have diverse multicultural heritage. By 2025 almost 30% of EU citizens will have reached the age of 60. The trend of an aging European Union is already clear in Italy. But what does this demographic change mean? And shouldn't the EU, then, be recruiting its labor force abroad? In Ghana, for example, only 4% of the population is over 65. A man in Bulgaria pauses in prayer. Bordering Turkey and in a region with several culturally or historically Islamic countries, but predominantly Christian Orthodox itself, Bulgaria is the EU member with the highest proportion of Muslims in the population. One in seven inhabitants identifies as Muslim. Some in the EU see multiculturalism as more of a threat than an enrichment. The Italian politician Federica Mogherini is responsible for international affairs as the EU's high representative for foreign affairs and security policy. There have been repeated calls in the EU for a common foreign policy. But so far there has not been enough demand to appoint her to formally be the foreign minister. A boat with refugees from Syria and Iraq is stranded off the Greek island of Lesbos. It set sail in Turkey. People are still risking their lives to get to Europe. With few routes available, many smugglers are able to collect large sums to facilitate the journey. According to aid organizations, more than 2,000 people drowned attempting to cross the Mediterranean Sea in 2018. Britain is still part of the EU. Prime Minister Theresa May greets her queen with a curtsy. Queen Elizabeth is undoubtedly more popular with Brits than the prime minister is. There are seven royal houses in Europe — but the British have by far the most famous royals. Christine Lagarde looks as if she appears to be asking for something in this photograph, taken during a speech in Bali — but it's probably the other way around. It is usually Lagarde who decides on the financial wishes and demands of states. The 63-year-old from France is director of the International Monetary Fund — making her a finance expert who has a say in world politics. Despite good education and a qualified workforce, youth unemployment remains persistent in some EU member states. Here's the employment office in the Spanish city of Valladolid. According to Eurostat, Spain's youth unemployment rate is just slightly under 38%. By way of comparison, the figure in Germany is only 6.6%. These dangerous-looking figures are engaging in an age-old traditions in Croatia's Rijeka. With their traditional spectacle they want to drive out the spirits and demons of winter. This is not only an exciting show for tourists: UNESCO included the Croatian bell-ringing custom, called Zvoncari, in the Representative List of the Intangible Cultural Heritage of Humanity in 2009. Author: Marko Langer, Ronka Oberhammer ls/ap (Reuters, AP, AFP, dpa)