With its big black eyes and mouth upturned into what looks like a smile, it's hard to imagine the cartoonishly cute Siberian flying squirrel provoking anger in anyone. Yet in Finland, the palm-sized critter is not only seen as a scourge by landowners and developers, it has become a target for anti-EU anger. The EU Habitats Directive protects the flying squirrel's environment — mainly economically valuable forests. Read more: Mass deforestation: How trade fells trees in Brazil and Indonesia Forestry counts for around a fifth of Finland's exports, and landowners have seen European conservation regulation as unwelcome interference from the EU. Building projects have also been stalled as the squirrels move into urban areas. "When people talk about flying squirrels, they are not talking about the animal actually, they are using it as a symbol — it symbolizes EU power over local people," Maarit Jokinen, a researcher at the University of Helsinki who has studied attitudes towards the flying squirrel, told DW. Flying squirrels don't exactly fly so much as glide, making a slow descent from tree to tree Flying squirrels vs. loggers Despite its protected status, the creature's numbers in Finland have fallen by 40% over the last decade. Their biggest enemy is logging. Flying squirrels use flaps of furry skin connecting their fore and hind legs to glide gracefully from tree to tree. But on the ground they are slow and clumsy, making them vulnerable to predators. Clear-cutting — when an area of forest is razed completely — can create an impenetrable barrier for the animals. Yet sympathy for the squirrels is in short supply. The media has picked up stories of extreme cases of development being hampered by conservation concerns, under headlines such as "The flying squirrel stole the Christmas Spirit" and "a flying mitten that can move even motorways." Fixing the furry fliers' PR problem Now, a new EU-funded project by Metsähallitus, a government enterprise that manages the country's state-owned forests, is hoping to turn things around for Finland's furry fliers — and that includes working on their public image. Thanks to the Flying Squirrel LIFE project, the public can now see their shy woodland neighbors in action via a livestream. And more directly, the project is working to closely involve landowners in plans to increase protected areas for the squirrels, rather than fighting them. Juho Korvenoja is the owner of an expanse of farmland and forest in the country's south. As part of the LIFE project, he has agreed to leave some of his wooded areas untouched for conservation. "It has been a long trip for the squirrel image-wise and I think there is a lot to be learned for the people who are trying to protect the squirrel," he told DW. Conservationists on Juho Korvenoja's land make plans to protect the squirrels "The way to do it is to do it in cooperation, not dictating what to do for the landowners," he added. Read more: As extinctions loom, biodiversity warnings fail to resonate with governments, media Cooperation and regulation Conservationists are learning to do just that, but some are also demanding tighter regulation of land where the airborne rodents make their home. Currently, it is up to landowners to decide how much forest to leave unfelled around flying squirrel nesting sites. Andrea Santangeli, a researcher from the University of Helsinki, says the result is that too little is being left standing — and the authorities aren't monitoring the situation. "My feeling is that it should be somehow regulated in a very clear and standardized way, rather than leaving the decision to the forest owners," he told DW. Eija Hurme says its rare for landowners to deliberately go after nesting squirrels The Finnish Forest Association says landowners have been known to cut down trees that provide the perfect habitat for flying squirrels, to stop them making themselves at home in the first place. Dogs for data But Eija Hurme, head of the Flying Squirrel LIFE project, says ignorance rather than malice is usually behind trees with flying squirrel nests being felled. Which is one reason her team are trying to gather more accurate data on flying squirrels. Elusive and largely nocturnal, they are notoriously difficult to get accurate population numbers on, which is why the project has recruited the help of tracking dogs. Tanya Karpela with Vihi, who has been trained to track down evidence of flying squirrels Tanja Karpela, who specializes in training dogs for scent recognition says using canines to find squirrel droppings is already making it easier to get an idea of their numbers. Good neighbors One place where the numbers are promising is Espoo, not far from Helsinki. Now thought to be home to around 800 flying squirrels, the city is held up as a model for the balance between conservation and urban planning. Read more: Why nightingales love scruffy Berlin Far from being a symbol of foreign interference, the flying squirrel can be a source of local pride, with cities like Espoo showing that "recreation and flying squirrels really go together," Hurme says. In fact, she says being close to green areas where the fluffy gliders nest could even increase the value of a property, as buyers know that "if a flying squirrel lives there, no one is going to cut that forest, so then I will continue seeing this forest from my window." Strong and muscular, the jaguar is the largest cat in the Americas and the third largest in the world, after the lion and the tiger. Its characteristic black patches act as a form of camouflage in dense vegetation — yet many still fall victim to hunters. Today, industrial agriculture is the biggest threat to the jaguar's survival. According to estimates, there are still 60,000 jaguars in the wild. These nimble hunters prefer densely forested areas, but are also present in wetlands, savannas and semi-deserts. The largest jaguar population lives in the Brazilian Pantanal wetland area on the Bolivian border. However, even this species-rich biosphere reserve is under threat from industrialization and deforestation. The Amazon bursts its banks at least once a year, flooding many areas of rainforest. The jaguars then shelter in the treetops and hunt, eat and sleep there for up to four months a year. Even though jaguars can weigh up to 100 kilograms, they are very skilled climbers and can easily reach the treetops. Thick rainforests that served as a good habitat for jaguars used to be common in the Brazilian state of Mato Grosso in the southern part of the Amazon. But landowners have deforested the area and replaced the trees with soybean crops. The harvest is used for industrial livestock production or exported to Europe. Further deforestation threatens hundreds of thousands of square kilometers of habitat. At birth, jaguar cubs are blind and can't see until after nearly two weeks. Mothers do most of the rearing and feed the babies for a half year, although occasionally fathers also take care of their offspring. At the age of one to two years, they leave their parents and seek a new area of their own. A jaguar needs a range of 25 to 150 square kilometers in order to survive. The jaguar is on the list of endangered species and trading its fur is banned. Although the total number of animals has declined in recent years, the jaguar is still not at the edge of extinction. In some areas, their number has even increased. It was once seriously endangered in Mexico, for example, but recently 4,800 jaguars were counted in the country — an increase of 20 percent since 2010. Author: Gero Rueter (ib)