Environmental Action Germany (DUH) has called for a New Year's Eve ban on fireworks in major cities. The large amount of smoke generated by private firework use during celebrations is harmful to city residents' health, the environmentalists said. The NGO noted that within a few hours after midnight, fireworks release 5,000 tons of particulate matter or fine dust into the air. That represents roughly 16% of the particulate matter amount emitted by traffic annually, said Jürgen Resch, DUH state managing director. "Each year on New Years' Eve fireworks create thick clouds over our cities,” Resch said. This forces hundreds of thousands of residents with respiratory problems to either leave ahead of time or "seal themselves in their homes.” With its rich fireworks and men clad in their traditional kilts parading on the streets, Scotland celebrates the winter festival "Hogmanay" on December 31. Precisely at midnight, people walk from door to door singing the ancient Celtic folk song "Auld Lang Syne." And should they ring your door bell they will bring you luck – and possibly a bottle of whisky to share. Following age-old tradition, Queen Margrethe II of Denmark holds a New Year's speech at 6 pm, broadcast on all radio and television stations. This is followed by lavish dinner parties, where heaps of food are accompanied by copious amounts of champagne and topped off with "Kransekage" — a wreathed almond cake. Those who can still get up at midnight leap off their chair and into the new year. In Germany, people exchange small gifts that are supposed to bring good luck for the new year, like marzipan pigs or four-leaf clovers. There's also a tradition of melting little lead figurines and casting them into water to read your coming year's fortune. And everyone partakes in watching a British comedy called "Dinner for One" — a tradition people in Britain can finally engage in this year. In Austria, the famous traditional Danube Waltz dominates New Year's festivities, whereby people literally waltz into the new year. This is usually preceded by the consumption of so-called "sweet fish," a biscuit to bring good luck for the new year. However, it's of crucial importance to start off eating the fin — or else your good fortune might swim away from you. In Switzerland, people celebrate New Year's Eve with parades, drums and as much noise as possible, believed to drive out evil spirits and demons. But there are fewer fireworks than elsewhere. The Swiss, trying to adapt to the cold weather, prefer to have a huge bonfire. Dinner usually consists of the traditional cheese fondue – a tradition which has begun to spill over to neighboring countries. At midnight in Spain, people swallow a grape at each stroke of the clock. You must take great care neither to choke on them nor to eat too many or too few — or else the New Year might not turn out as you wished. In towns and villages across the country, people congregate on central squares jubilating with the grapes in their mouths. By around 5 am, they eat churros, a traditional fried pastry. The French go for fine foods, sumptuous champagne and good wine. A particular delicacy for the occasion is foie gras. There aren't many fireworks in France on New Year's Eve, as pyrotechnics are rather reserved for the French national holiday on July 14. Parisians also love to take a midnight stroll around their superbly illuminated buildings, such as the Eiffel Tower. In Italy, gentlemen are keen to gift their ladies with red lingerie for the New Year. There is a rich dinner in the evening with the traditional dish being knuckle of pork with lentils. As in other parts of Europe, pigs are believed to bring you luck. Another way of inviting good luck for the new year is the practice of throwing old cloths out of the window at the stroke of midnight. In the Czech Republic, people celebrate the new year with sparkling wine while eating small sandwiches called "chlebicky." Hoping to predict what the future may hold they also halve apples and examine the pits. It's considered a bad sign if the pits form a cross but if they form a star it means your road ahead will be clear. Later at midnight, fireworks illuminate the capital Prague. In an attempt to drive out evil spirits, Bulgarians celebrate with a lot of noise, with men dressed up as monsters dancing around in the bell-clad costumes. Their dance is supposed to bring a rich harvest in the new year. People also go around patting each other on the back, which is believed to guarantee good health in the new year. For many Greeks, New Year's Eve only means one thing: gambling. The winner of the night is expected to become rich in the new year while the loser will be lucky in love. Bakers also hide a coin in the traditional New Year's loaf; the person who gets the piece with the coin is believed to become a millionaire. "Father Noel" brings gifts to children in Turkey while adults turn on all the taps in the household to make sure that good luck flows into the new year. As in other countries, ladies wear red lingerie while sweets are passed around to make sure that the coming year will be peaceful and, well, sweet. Author: Silke Wünsch After warning about the health hazards of fireworks last year, encouraging residents to abstain from buying them, the DUH will now petition cities directly to ban the popular explosives. Some 31 cities are targeted for the ban, including Berlin, Munich, Cologne, Stuttgart and Hannover. The NGO pointed out that already nearly all cities in industrialized nations have banned private firework use. Currently, the World Health Organization has set a standard of 20 micrograms of fine dust per cubic meter annually, while the EU has set the figure at 40 micrograms. Firework use pushes German cities to exceed this number, DUH said. "We don't want to be a buzzkill. People should continue to be able to enjoy New Year's Eve fireworks," Resch said. But citizens should find alternatives to private fireworks, such as publicly-organized displays, or set off private fireworks outside the city, Resch stressed. In August, the DUH will begin lobbying German cities, but some have already taken action, though mainly for safety reasons, rather than health. Berlin and Munich are set to impose restrictions on fireworks use over New Year's Eve. A spokesman for Berlin's state government told the EPD news agency that some no-firework zones will likely be established in the city. Send  Facebook   Twitter   google+   Whatsapp   Tumblr   linkedin   stumble   Digg   reddit   Newsvine Permalink https://p.dw.com/p/3600S jcg/rt (dpa, EPD) Each evening at 1830 UTC, DW's editors send out a selection of the day's hard news and quality feature journalism. You can sign up to receive it directly here.