When Mary Leng first tried a lemon grass soap, she instantly felt the difference. Her skin felt smoother and she felt refreshed and relaxed. It also left a nice fragrance in the room. Leng has a sensitive skin, and skin care products in the market always irritated her. She kept looking for organic skin care products, which use natural ingredients instead of chemicals. But then she decided to take the matter in her own hands. She started learning how to make organic beauty products. "Even when I was a child, I used to think that I should make my own beauty products. Actually, most of the ingredients were in the kitchen," Leng told DW. From a young age, Leng started using organic soaps, which she bought mostly from local stores, and she also made some of them herself. She experimented with natural ingredients like salt, orange and lime, which she used in different combinations. Leng's preference to use organic beauty products reflects a growing trend in Cambodia. A report by Grand View Research Inc., says that an increasing number of people are switching to organic and environment-friendly products all over the world. Read more: Demand for natural cosmetics drives snail slime boom in Italy Unsafe products Vichra Di, the owner of She Beauty, sells products like soap, lip balm, facial mask, scrub and moisturizer cream, all made from locally produced ingredients. Most of these products have coconut oil. For instance, the scrub, which exfoliates and moisturizes the skin, is made of brown sugar, coffee, and coconut oil. Di used to buy oil from a coconut garden, but now she makes her own coconut oil. The coconut trees she uses to make the oil do not use any fertilizer. Send  Facebook   Twitter   google+   Whatsapp   Tumblr   linkedin   stumble   Digg   reddit   Newsvine Permalink https://p.dw.com/p/2lJR4 For Di, personal care products with chemicals or synthetic materials are unsafe. "After I delivered a baby in August 2015, I was in a poor physical condition. When I used a detergent to wash clothes, the chemical substances in it affected my lungs," she told DW. "There are a lot of fake products in Cambodian markets that are harmful for people's health. Even products by reputable international brands pose a health risk, especially if they use chemicals," she added. Cambodian authorities confiscated over 68 tons of fake cosmetic products in 2017. Scientists say that commonly used cosmetic products have ingredients that are harmful not only for humans, but also for marine life. Personal care products such as facial scrubs, soaps and makeup items contain microbeads, which are actually tiny particles of plastic. These microbeads are also polluting oceans. On the other hand, organic products contain natural ingredients, which eliminate the problem of microplastic, as these products are biodegradable. Certified organic beauty products also do not use genetically modified (GM) ingredients and toxic chemicals such as synthetic colors, dyes or fragrances. Read more: Organic farming reaches record level in Germany Real or fake? But can we tell if the product is really organic? Di says it is important that customers look at the package labels. "To know whether a product is real or fake, you must see the label on each product. It shows you how it is made, what the ingredients are, and where this product was made. "Also, the customers need to test the product," she said, adding that it is crucial to finding the right organic product. "I test it on my hand first, or sometimes I try a small amount of it on my skin. If I get an allergic reaction, I immediately see a dermatologist," she said. Di says that her company, She Beauty, provides compensation for customers if they get an allergic reaction from its products. Old bread into new plastics: The Fraunhofer Institute for Applied Polymer Research and the Leibnitz Institute for Agricultural Research are pursuing this aim together. Of course, it involves more than just slicing up the bread and mixing it into the plastic. First the breasd has to be chopped to its molecules - and that's not possible just with a knife. Bread - or any other waste that includes a large portion of starch - must be decomposed into sugars. They are the favorite snack of specific micro-organisms. The bacteria then turn the sugars into long molecules of lactic acid, so-called polylactide polymers. These fibres made of Polylactic Acid (PLA) have been produced from corn starch. They can be used for a large variety of purposes: The fleece finds use in medicine, while the thread can be turned into clothing. The polo shirt and baseball cap (pictured) as well as all other different plastic parts are compostable. Buried in the ground, or exposed to sunlight, they will eventually disintegrate. After a while, only lactic acid will remain. This is also usefull in medicine: PLA screws, used to fix broken bones, will gradually disintegrate as the bones heal. Waste from seafood processing can also be turned into plastics: Shrimp shells contain chitin - a good raw material for the production of new polymers. This also solves an environmental issue. Garbage from the fishing industry not only stinks, but also generates dangerous gases. When paper mills produce cellulose, they leave something behind that, typically, only a fungus can deal with: Lignin. Biocatalysts can break it up as well. Researchers at the Fraunhofer Institute for Interfacial Engineering and Biotechnology want to turn it into polymers - the basis for new plastics. Power plants produce waste in the form of gases. The foam pictured is partially made using carbon dioxide from the exhaust of a coal power plant. The CO2 was broken up using a special catalyst from Bayer. The advantage of the new method: It uses less energy than classical foam production. CO2 foam could soon be found in many households. Here, you see production at a pilot facility in Leverkusen. A full-scale production facility is being built right now and is expected to go into service in 2016. Natural materials can also be added to traditional plastic compounds to enforce the products structurally. Those plastic parts containing wood and other natural fibers can be used to build furniture or the inner lining of cars. This device is made out of China grass. The plant grows fast and is excellent for producing energy. But the fibers can also be usefull in the production of plastic parts. Researchers from the University of Bonn have produced it at their agricultural campus, Klein Altendorf. Author: Fabian Schmidt