While visiting Ecuador at the weekend, US Secretary of State Mike Pompeo said that free and fair elections in Venezuela would not be possible while Cuba was supporting its embattled president, Nicolas Maduro. "With respect to Maduro staying, it seems incomprehensible that you could have a free and fair election with Maduro still in Venezuela on the ground," Pompeo said in Ecuador on Saturday evening. "I don't want to rule out the possibility that someone could find a clever way to do that, but it seems that to the extent that you have the Cubans protecting Maduro, they would not be able to deliver a free and fair election." Read more: How much influence does Cuba have over Venezuela? The United States has been leading efforts to oust Maduro since his re-election in 2018, which Washington considers illegitimate. The US is one of many states, including Germany, supporting opposition leader Juan Guaido, who has failed to oust Maduro despite declaring himself Venezuela's rightful president. Maduro maintains that Guaido is a puppet backed by the United States and other western countries seeking to oust him. Backed by the military, Maduro has the ongoing support of China, Russia and Cuba. Maduro has presided over a crumbling economy that has led to one of the worst refugee crises to ever hit Latin America. Read more: 3 million people have fled Venezuela A large wall stretches into the Pacific Ocean at the beaches of San Diego and Tijuana, two populous cities separated by the US-Mexico border. It is one of the most secure areas of the frontier and is part of the 700 miles (1,126 kilometers) of fencing that have been completed thus far. The fight over how to secure the border has divided Republicans, who support more fencing, and Democrats, who argue that using technology is more effective. Experts estimate it would cost $15-25 billion (€13-22 billion) to fully wall off the entire southern frontier. Large swaths of the border are covered in desert, desolate and uninhabited. Many migrants try to cross these areas, where they fall victim to disorientation, dehydration and where the risk of death is high. Activists often leave water (pictured) and other supplies to help migrants survive the dangerous trek. Roughly 1,000 miles (1,600 kilometers) of the 1,933-mile border are covered by the snaking Rio Grande. Migrants regularly attempt to cross the river, either by swimming or on rafts. The calm appearance of the Rio Grande is deceitful, as it is a fast-moving river with dangerous currents. The US-Mexico border is considered the most transited frontier in the world. Most of the movement takes place at the various points of entry, where lawful back-and-forth traffic and asylum-seekers meet. The Matamoros-Brownsville International Bridge (pictured) is one of 44 official points of entry and the last one before the border ends at the Gulf of Mexico. Author: Jenipher Camino Gonzalez Trade and migration in Mexico talks Moving on to Mexico, Pompeo met with Foreign Minister Marcelo Ebrard on Sunday, a day before the deadline on a key trade arrangement. Mexican authorities were upbeat about the meeting. "On immigration, Secretary Pompeo recognized the significant progress made by Mexican operatives, in compliance with the agreement between the two countries," the Mexican Foreign Ministry said in a statement. Ebrard said Mexico has fulfilled its commitment to reduce migration from Central America, in part by deploying 21,000 National Guardsmen. In June, Mexico averted punishing tariffs on shipments to the US by promising to restrict the flow of illegal migrants from Central America by July 22. That 45-day period expires on Monday and should the US determine that Mexico has not done enough to stem the migrant tide, talks will start to change rules so that most asylum seekers apply for refuge in Mexico, and not in the United States. Mexico has long resisted pressure to accept this "safe third country" status. Conditions at migrant camps on the US border have been strongly criticized by US lawmakers and rights' groups. Every day, DW's editors send out a selection of the day's hard news and quality feature journalism. Sign up for the newsletter here. Send  Facebook   Twitter   google+   Whatsapp   Tumblr   linkedin   stumble   Digg   reddit   Newsvine Permalink https://p.dw.com/p/3K3s6 kw/jm (AP, AFP, Reuters) 