Germany's Manfred Weber and the Netherland's Frans Timmermans — the two leading contenders to be the next European Commission president — went head-to-head in a televised debate in Germany on Tuesday. Climate change, taxes, terrorism and migration led the discussion between Weber, a vice-chairman of Bavaria's Christian Social Union, and Timmermans, previously vice-chairman of the EU Commission. The European elections will be held from May 23-26. According to recent polls, the European People's Party, a bloc of conservative parties to which Weber belongs, is likely to remain the strongest party in the next parliament with 24%, while the Social Democrats would keep their share of the vote at 20%. Read more: Manfred Weber: Merkel's pick to head European Commission Ambitious climate goals Timmermans accused the EPP of being "dinosaurs" when it comes to climate change. "The European Commission president has to become personally responsible for climate change," Timmermans said. "If we wait another five years we have lost, and the EPP are dinosaurs in this question." Weber denied the charge, saying that the EPP "is ambitious" in combattng climate change, adding that his focus would be on lobbying other continents such as China, the United States and Latin America to join the fight. Weber said he was in favor of ambitious climate protection targets by 2050, but said a tax on carbon dioxide should not be imposed on the poorest and weakest through higher fuel and heating oil prices. Social Democrat Timmermans said he wants to make climate protection a top priority. He argued not only for a CO2 tax but also for a kerosene tax to offset the tax advantage for climate-damaging air travel. Weber also agreed that the unequal tax treatment of rail, car and air travel must be ended. Timmermans also said the voting age should be lowered to 16 because "young people know what they want; teenage climate activist Greta Thunberg also knows what she wants." Read more: What does the European Parliament actually do? The center-right European People's Party (EPP) — the largest faction in the European Parliament — has picked Manfred Weber, its German parliamentary party leader. He has the backing of Chancellor Angela Merkel. Though considered the front-runner, Weber is little known on the international stage, and his language skills are considered poor. Frans Timmermans, the European Commission's first vice president, will lead the campaign for the Progressive Alliance of Socialists & Democrats (S&D). Weber's main rival promises to bring the bloc closer to ordinary voters at a time when Britain's looming exit is one factor behind the nationalist movements across the EU. The third-largest group in the EU Parliament, the European Conservatives and Reformists (ECR), has just one candidate: Jan Zahradil, chairman of the Czech ECR delegation. Zahradil, 65, is affectionately known as "Forrest Gump" for cycling from Prague to Strasbourg for a session of the European Parliament and for once running 1,300 kilometers (about 800 miles) across the Czech Republic for charity. Margrethe Vestager, 51, is one of seven lead candidates for the Alliance of Liberals and Democrats. As the current EU commissioner for competition, the Danish MEP has taken on corporations like Apple, Amazon and Google parent Alphabet. It's also been said that she served as the inspiration for the main character in Borgen, a Danish series where a woman becomes Denmark's first female leader. The Greens/EFA is the seventh largest group in European Parliament, so the Dutchman is a long shot to become European Commission president. The 42-year-old MEP, who along with Germany's Ska Keller is representing the group, said he joined the race to "make sure the Green vision is being heard." He has championed a move to cap palm oil use by 2023, then reduce it to zero by 2030. The EU's left-wing groups will be headed by Belgian trade unionist Nico Cue and Violeta Tomic (at left). Tomic is a deputy in Slovenia's National Assembly, best known as a TV presenter and actress. She entered into politics in 2014 and has been an advocate for LGBT rights and stronger citizens' rights in Europe. Author: Keith Walker Returning EU militants On terrorism, Weber argued that European nationals who fought for militant groups including "Islamic State" should not be allowed to return home and should face prosecution outside of the bloc. "Let us talk to our Kurdish partners and make sure that those who committed atrocities are subjected to fair punishment there," said Weber. Timmermans meanwhile suggested setting up an international tribunal to prosecute the crimes. The Britain-based Syrian Observatory for Human Rights has estimated that more than 10,000 "Islamic State" fighters are also being held by the Kurdish forces - many with foreign nationalities. Strategies for Africa When it came to migration policy, Timmermans promoted comprehensive reconciliation with Africa. Europe needs a "massive Marshall Plan" for the neighboring continent, Timmermans said, adding that this would allow for society - economy, education, rule of law – to be modernized. After this, Europe could talk to the African countries about migration, he said. Weber also called for closer contacts with Africa, but said, above all, he relies on trade agreements and special partnerships with the countries. Shaping the European Parliament To make the EU more democratic, Timmermans argued for transnational lists, meaning that Finnish or Italian candidates, for example, could also be elected in Germany. Weber rejected this idea and said candidates should be as locally rooted as possible. In a moment of agreement, both candidates said that if they were elected they would fill half of the EU Commission with women. Send  Facebook   Twitter   google+   Whatsapp   Tumblr   linkedin   stumble   Digg   reddit   Newsvine Permalink https://p.dw.com/p/3HsdB EU's heads of state and government get final say Under the so-called Spitzenkandidat (lead candidate) system, most pan-European political groups have nominated a top election contender. The understanding is that the top candidate of the political group that wins the most votes should be appointed president of the European Commission, one of the most powerful jobs in the EU. However, it is up to the EU's heads of state and government to appoint the commission president, and they have no legal obligation to follow the system. law/se (dpa, AFP, Reuters) Every evening, DW sends out a selection of the day's news and features. Sign up here.