Mexican rescuers spotted "no survivors" while surveying the crash site of a private plane in the north of the country, authorities said on Monday. The wreckage is believed to be the Bombardier Challenger 601 jet that disappeared from radar while flying from Las Vegas to the north Mexican city of Monterrey with at least 13 people on board. An air search of the isolated mountainous area found a wreck matching the private jet. "Everything indicates it is the plane" that went missing, said Miguel Villarreal, head of the Monclova International Airport in the state of Coahuila. Police, soldiers and civil protection agents were deployed to the site, as well as forensic dogs, to begin an investigation. Civil protection official Francisco Martinez said unstable climatic conditions at around the time of the crash were being investigated as a possible cause. Read more: Plane crashes in northern Mexico after takeoff, everyone survives "There has been a lot of activity and atmospheric instability in the state," Martinez told Mexico's Milenio television channel. In four days we've had storms, hailstone and winds with gusts of more than 60 kilometers per hour." Passengers on the private jet had reportedly visited Las Vegas to see Mexican boxer Saul "Canelo" Alvarez fight American Daniel Jacobs for the middleweight title fight on Saturday. Alvarez won the fight. The boxer posted his condolences on Twitter, saying "I deeply lament the terrible accident of the plane coming from Vegas. I'm deeply grateful for the support of all the people who travel to see my fights. My prayers are with their families." Authorities did not release the names of people on board. The plane was registered in the US, where it was routinely rented for executive travel. A Germanwings Airbus A320 crashed into the French Alps on March 24, 2015 during a flight from Barcelona to Dusseldorf. All 144 passengers and six crew members were killed. A co-pilot with mental problems intentionally crashed the plane. Rebels in eastern Ukraine were accused of shooting down Malaysia Airlines flight MH17 on July 17, 2014 during a flight from Amsterdam to Kuala Lumpur. All 298 people on board died, 193 of them Dutch. A Dutch investigation found pro-Russian rebels shot the plane down with a Buk surface-to-air missile launched from separatist territory in eastern Ukraine. A Polish air force plane carrying President Lech Kaczynski crashed near the Russian airport of Smolensk on April 10, 2010. A Russian and Polish investigation found pilot error during landing in thick fog caused the crash that killed more than 90 people. Jaroslaw Kaczynski (pictured), the twin brother of Lech and leader of the ruling PiS, has suggested the crash was a political assassination. An Air France flight from Rio de Janeiro to Paris crashed in the Atlantic on June 1, 2009, killing all 228 people on board. It took nearly two years for the black box (pictured) to be recovered from the bottom of the ocean. The investigation found a combination of technical and pilot error caused the crash. A Spanair MD-82 plane crashed after take-off from Madrid airport on August 20, 2008, killing 154 people. Amazingly, 18 people survived the crash and subsequent fire. The crash was caused by an improper flap and slat configuration and a failure of the pilots to follow a pre-flight checklist. A Russian passenger plane operated by Pulkovo Aviation Enterprise crashed near the eastern Ukraine city of Donetsk on August 22, 2006, killing all 170 people aboard. The plane was flying from St. Petersburg to the Black Sea resort of Anapa. A Helios Airways flight from Cyprus crashed on August 14, 2005 near its destination Athens, killing all 121 on board. The crash was caused by a loss of cabin pressurization that immobilized the crew. The plane flew on autopilot until it ran out of fuel and crashed. On October 8, 2001 a Scandinavian Airlines MD-87 airliner collided with a small Cessna on take-off from Milan's Linate Airport. All 114 people on the SAS and Cessna aircraft were killed, as were four people on the ground. The accident happened in thick fog. The SAS plane crashed into a hangar. On July 25, 2000 a Air France Concorde flight from Paris to New York crashed two minutes after take-off, killing 109 people on board and four people on the ground. The crash was caused by the Concorde running over a piece of debris on the runway, which sent tire debris into part of the fuel tank that burst into flames. dj,rc/aw (AP, dpa, AFP, Reuters) Every evening, DW sends out a selection of the day's news and features. Sign up here.