Voters in North Macedonia returned to the ballot box on Sunday to vote in a presidential runoff election that focused on the name change deal with Greece. The hotly contested vote pitted Stevo Pendarovski, backed by the ruling Social Democrats, against his nationalist-backed rival Gordana Siljanovska-Davkova.  Turnout for what State Electoral Commission head Oliver Derkorski called a "peaceful and dignified" election stood at 42.8% of registered voters just after polls closed at 7 p.m. local time (1700 UTC). On Sunday evening, with more than 70% of polling stations processed Pendarovski was leading with 53.8% of the votes and his opponent, Siljanovska-Davkova had 42.7%. Pendarovski had earlier urged people to vote for his concept of "moving forward for all citizens of Republic of North Macedonia, all ethnicities regardless of religion, nationality or political party." His rival, Siljanovska-Davkova, said she would end the "political winter in Macedonia." Gordana Siljanovska Davkova Both picked up about 41% of the vote each in the first round, which saw the ethnic Albanian-backed candidate Blerim Reka squeezed out of the race. The three-way presidential vote in April had a record-low turnout of 41.9%, just above the 40% needed to make the poll valid. Never-ending name dispute The presidential vote follows the Balkan state's recent name change as part of an agreement with Greece to end a 28-year diplomatic row. In February, the word "North" was added to the country's name to differentiate it from the ancient Greek province of Macedonia. Voters approved the name change in a consultative referendum last September — albeit with a very low turnout. Read more: North Macedonia name change both heals and divides Athens, in return, has removed obstacles that prevented North Macedonia from becoming a member of NATO. Skopje also hopes that, with a Greek veto lifted, it will receive an invitation for North Macedonia to start EU membership talks in June. The accord continues to divide Macedonians, and it has eclipsed all other issues during campaigning. On Sunday, opposition candidate Siljanovska-Davkova said she would "respect" the official use of the country's new name, but she would also work to point out alleged legal problems with the accord. "I will use the new name as a lawyer and law professor, but not personally," she said. Read more: Macedonia: What's in a name? The country's outgoing nationalist president, Gjorge Ivanov, could not run again, having already served the maximum of two terms. rc,dj/jm (dpa, Reuters, Beta, AP, Maxfaxm) Each evening at 1830 UTC, DW's editors send out a selection of the day's hard news and quality feature journalism. You can sign up to receive it directly here.