Although May 3 marks the occasion of World Press Freedom Day, in 2019 there is hardly a reason to celebrate. The dream that technological progress would facilitate the free flow of information worldwide has turned into a nightmare for some. Putting your head in the sand is, of course, not a solution. Here are three proposals for a sustainable strengthening of press freedom: Media competence against propaganda Publication bans, withdrawal of the economic basis and prison sentences: these patterns of behavior evident in repressive states are quite transparent. They are evidence that the political class feels threatened. The public is very aware of what is happening and can quickly come to the realization that the free flow of information is being suppressed. Yet there are also dangers that are more opaque, especially given the viral structure of the internet. People — and increasingly also machines — spread lies along with fake videos and photos that have been deliberately manipulated. Fake news, disinformation campaigns on social media, slander and threats have become an everyday thing. Real communication professionals are increasingly at the helm of these operations, as can be seen in examples like RT (Russia Today) and, unfortunately, also Al Jazeera. The means of communication they use is friendly, sometimes witty and shrewd. In a complicated world, they tempt you with an offer of simplification. These tendencies are supported by efforts to turn the cosmopolitan internet into an intranet, censored for the country. This tendency towards isolating the network in non-free states is growing. Iran, China, Russia and Turkey are increasingly affected. There is only one answer: People must learn to distinguish between lies and the truth. In the end, they must know that it is not only the freedom of the media being threatened, but potentially also the freedom to speak one's mind in the "private" space without having to fear reprisals. Read more: Journalist Ahmet Altan mulls freedom in a Turkish prison Send  Facebook   Twitter   google+   Whatsapp   Tumblr   linkedin   stumble   Digg   reddit   Newsvine Permalink https://p.dw.com/p/3H0oa Making politicians do their duty Democratic politicians from all over the world, including those in Europe and Germany, are outdoing each other in an attempt to court China. It does not matter that freedom of the press does not exist in the country and that independent news from foreign broadcasters such as Deutsche Welle is completely blocked there. Representatives of the business world think more of China's big business than of its human rights record. In Iran, economic possibilities are discussed but not the more than 20 journalists who are held in torture prisons run by the Revolutionary Guards. In Bangladesh and Pakistan, bloggers risk their lives if they critically report on the growing Islamism in their country. Serious support for rights in these countries from abroad is in short supply. The world celebrates the Saudi crown prince because women are allowed to go to the cinema, to sports stadiums and are now even allowed to drive cars. But where is the outcry that blogger Raif Badawi is still in a Saudi prison? The list could go on. It's a sad list. And today is a good day to set about judging politicians by what they are doing to counter the increasing attacks on press freedom: Do they show dictators clearly what our values are? Are they prepared to forgo deals if these values are flagrantly violated? Do they link the willingness to give development aid to the situation of human rights and freedom of the press? Read more: Reporters Without Borders head: 'Journalism in Europe has been weakened' Journalists: The decisive factor Freedom of the press is not a given, granted from on high. The legal framework is one thing but the inner attitude of each individual journalist is another. Journalists who are working in countries with a liberal media system should especially serve as examples for colleagues who work in difficult circumstances. To be a journalist means to always be suspicious of one's own convictions — and those shared by colleagues — and to turn a certainty into a question again. And yes, not to be afraid of being applauded from the wrong side. For example, I look with great concern at the discussion as to whether we in Germany should even talk to AfD politicians. If we ignore whole political groups, unpleasant politicians or other public figures that do not fit into our world view, we leave a gap that is then filled by others. In the end, we are damaging the freedom of the press, which we want to celebrate today. Read more: Is Africa's thumbs down to media freedom a case of follow the leader? In Uganda, journalists who criticize the government are attacked or kidnapped, while President Yoweri Museveni even described journalists as "parasites" in 2018. Authorities have repeatedly prevented the broadcast of television reports, and threaten to shut down TV stations. A social media tax — the first of its kind in Africa — was introduced in 2018. Ethiopia, on the other hand, is making progress. Since April 2018, Prime Minister Abiy Ahmed has facilitated the release of imprisoned journalists and restored access to 250 news websites. Ethiopian TV stations based outside of the country can now also work freely. A commission is currently underway to revise strict media laws, but changes are still pending. The media in Eritrea is under the complete control of President Issayas Afeworki. The government shut down all independent outlets in 2001. The only independent radio station currently is Radia Erena, which is run by exiled Eritrean journalists. But its signal is often blocked. Eritrea is ranked third-to-last on the Press Freedom Index, ahead of only North Korea and Turkmenistan. Media in Sudan suffered particularly in 2018 under former president Omar al-Bashir. In December approximately 100 journalists were arrested. The National Intelligence and Security Service (NISS) shut down opposition newspapers. Journalists are forbidden to publish stories which cover any of the 15 so-called 'red line' topics, including the NISS and the army. Following an attempted coup in 2015, most independent radio stations remain closed. Journalists either live in exile or find it difficult to work freely. By 2018, the media landscape was characterized by fear and self-censorship. In May 2018, Karenga Ramadhan, the president of the National Communications Bureau, announced the suspension of the broadcast of the BBC and Voice of America (VOA). Despite a change of government in 2017, all media outlets are still monitored by authorities. Only Radio Ecclesia and a few websites currently broadcast critical reports. It is difficult to obtain new radio and TV licenses, while all stations are legally required to broadcast presidential speeches. But the 2018 publication of opposition reports in state newspapers is encouraging. Most publications under the government of President Ali Bongo are partisan in nature. There is also self-censorship. In 2018, both the national media and a foreign broadcaster were sanctioned for criticizing the president and his staff. In January, the government cut off access to the internet and other broadcasters following an attempted coup. Most press freedom violations in sub-Saharan Africa in 2018 took place in the Democratic Republic of Congo. Violence, media shut-downs and internet cuts are limiting press freedom. Broadcasters were pulled off the air after being accused of criticizing the government — then under Joseph Kabila. But new president Felix Tshisekedi says he wants to improve the media situation in the country. Any criticism of President Idriss Deby is not tolerated and may even lead to the expulsion of foreign journalists or the kidnapping and detention of Chadian journalists and broadcasters being shut down. In February 2018, media outlets in Chad organized a "Day without Press" protest and stopped reporting entirely. The government retaliated by shutting down social media for a year. President John Magufuli has been suppressing critics since taking office in 2015. More than a dozen media outlets have been shut down and websites and new blogs must pay high fees if they want to stay online. In February 2019, the newspaper The Citizen was forced to close for a week after being accused of deliberately publishing false information. Under President Paul Kagame, the press is still tightly controlled. Foreign journalists are often not given accreditation. The 1994 genocide is referenced when the government calls critical journalists "divisionists." Many Rwandan journalists have fled the country and work in exile, leading the government to increasingly block access to foreign broadcasters such as the BBC. Since 2016, political tensions have been used as an excuse to undermine freedom of information and the independent press in Zambia. The authorities have shut down the country's main independent newspaper, The Post, and several radio and TV stations had their licenses taken away. In March, a private TV station was forced to close because its reporting was considered biased. Author: Silja Fröhlich (im) Every evening at 1830 UTC, DW's editors send out a selection of the day's hard news and quality feature journalism. You can sign up to receive it directly here.