For Union Berlin, the 2018-19 season will go down as the greatest in the club's history. And the positive effects of the club's first ever promotion to the Bundesliga could go much further than the eastern Berlin suburb of Köpenick. Good for football in Berlin Germany boasts a dozen major cities with huge football clubs and passionate fan-bases but, for various reasons, Berlin hasn't necessarily always been one of them. The capital was politically and geographically divided for 40 years and, in the three decades since reunification, Berliners have had other things to occupy them as the city developed into a cultural, social and political hub in the newly-unified Germany. DW's Matt Ford In the former eastern districts, ten-time GDR (German Democratic Republic) champions BFC Dynamo collapsed without the support of their former Stasi (the state security service) backers. Union Berlin suffered a similar fate to other eastern German clubs, slipping into a downward spiral of sporting failure and financial collapse. In the west of the city, Hertha Berlin have established themselves in the Bundesliga but, despite healthy crowds of over 45,000, they have sometimes struggled to capture public imagination in the same way that other clubs in Germany have. Now however, for the first time since Hertha faced Tennis Borussia in 1977, the German capital has a Bundesliga derby to look forward to and a chance to restablish football's status in the city. "I congratulate Union Berlin on their promotion," tweeted Hertha CEO Michael Preetz. "It will do Berlin extremely good to have two Bundesliga clubs and we're looking forward to exciting derbies which we want to win! But the biggest winner is our fantastic capital." Berlin derby: Hertha and Union have met in division two and in the cup, but never in the Bundesliga. Good for football in eastern Germany This season, Bundesliga side RasenBallsport Leipzig celebrated their tenth birthday with their first ever appearance in the German Cup final (a 3-0 defeat to Bayern Munich) and a second ever qualification for the Champions League. RB Leipzig's rise has been widely hailed as a positive development for football in the east of the country, a region which three decades after reunification is still socially and politically different. Yet while RB Leipzig have an eastern German postcode in an eastern German city with eastern German fans, there is little eastern German about the club itself. The club remains ultimately controlled from Red Bull's headquarters in Fuschl-am-See in Austria and has only 17 voting members, all of whom are either employed by or closely linked to Red Bull. The club never played in the former East German "Oberliga"and have not had to overcome any of the sporting, economic or social challenges which have plagued football in the region since reunification. Three decades on, Union have become only the fifth former East German club to reach the Bundesliga, and the first since Energie Cottbus in 2009. The club's promotion is a victory for sensible management, financial prudence, perserverance and supporter engagement - and proof that football clubs in the east of the country can achieve success without the influence of an international brand. Red Bull landed in Leipzig in 2009 - but Union have showed there is another way Good for German football as a whole The failure of German clubs in Europe, combined with the presence of two all-English finals in both the Europa and Champions League finals, has led to a predictable panic in German football. Calls for fundamental change to the way German football is run have grown louder, notably the abolition of the 50+1 rule. But there is another way, as Union Berlin have proved. Simultaneously rooted in their local community while remaining open and welcoming to visitors from further afield, Union embody the values of German football like few other clubs. In 2008, 2,500 fans volunteered over 140,000 hours of work to help renovate the club's stadium, mixing cement and laying bricks to ensure the ground fulfilled the league's licensing requirements. Four years earlier, with the club on the verge of bankruptcy, supporters donated money received from giving blood in a campaign called "bleeding for Union". Union have plans to expand capacity to 37,000 by adding another tier of terracing. When work is complete, the stadium, called the "Stadion an der Alten Försterei" (the stadium at the old forrester's house) will be able to hold more standing fans than Borussia Dortmund's yellow wall. "Fans are not customers here," says Christian Arbeit, lifelong fan, stadium announcer and communications manager. "We do things differently, we do things together." In an age where football has lost all sense of perspective and in which fans are more disillusioned than ever, and in a year when German football hasn't had much to shout about, Union Berlin are a breath of fresh air for Berlin, eastern Germany and for the game as a whole. The celebrations at the Stadion an der Alten Försterei in the German capital's Köpenick district went late into Monday night after Union Berlin played to a scoreless draw at home to Stuttgart in the second leg of the playoff - securing promotion to the Bundesliga. It's hard to imagine any other club in Germany's top flight letting the supporters invade the pitch to celebrate after a great victory, but Union are a club with a difference. Traveling supporters of other Bundesliga clubs can look forward to a unique experience when they visit the Stadion an der Alten Försterei in the 2019-20 season. The man who engineered Union's promotion is Urs Fischer, the club's seventh coach in five seasons. After spending his entire playing and coaching career in his native Switzerland, he took over in Köpenick in 2018. At fulltime against Stuttgart, he was drenched in beer by his ecstatic colleagues. In the first leg in Stuttgart last Thursday, Union Berlin twice came from behind to earn a well-deserved 2-2 draw. Here, Suleiman Abdullahi celebrates the first equalizer with his teammates, just one minute after Stuttgart had taken the lead. The two away goals proved decisive when the return leg in Berlin ended goalless. Union Berlin's ultras produced an impressive choreography ahead of kick-off in the second leg, featuring two hands holding a surgically-removed heart with the message: "Now the waiting is over, take your heart in your hand." After a decade in the second division, the club has finally made it to the top flight. Two seaons ago, Union Berlin unexpectedly found themselves top of the league with 10 games to play. With the fans suddenly realizing that promotion was a distinct possibility, doubts emerged as to whether the traditionally-minded club was even ready for the top flight. In the end, they needn't have worried as Union slipped to fourth by the end of the campaign. German football fans are well known for their active engagement in their clubs, but none more so than at Union Berlin. In the summer of 2008, building work was required at the Stadion an der Alten Försterei to fulfill licensing requirements. With the club struggling financially, supporters volunteered over 140,000 man hours to rebuild the terraces themselves. "Merry Christmas!" Every year in December, Union Berlin invite fans and local residents to their stadium to sing Christmas carols. As temperatures in the capital plunge, fans keep warm with hats, scarves, candles and, of course, a couple of beers. In 2001, third-division Union reached the final of the German Cup after sensationally knocking out giants such as Bochum and Borussia Mönchengladbach en route. But the fairy tale came to an end in the Olympic Stadium, where Union were beaten 2-0 by Bundesliga side Schalke. But the journey didn't end there ... With Schalke having already qualified for the Champions League via the Bundesliga, an extra UEFA Cup spot was freed up for German clubs. And so, as losing cup finalists, Union Berlin became the first – and, so far, only – third-division side to qualify for European competition. Having also been promoted that season, they competed as a second-division club and reached the second round. Founded in their current form in 1966, Union were one of 11 state-supported "Fussballclubs" in the East German top flight, the Oberliga. Based in the working-class suburb of Köpenick, they represented an alternative to hated city rivals Berliner FC Dynamo, the 10-time GDR champions favored by Stasi boss Erich Mielke. In September 1986, BFC hammered Union 8-1 (pictured above). Author: Matt Ford