The leader of the Republican People's Party (CHP), Kemal Kilicdaroglu, had most likely prepared himself for a more contemplative day on April 21, when he attended the funeral of a soldier killed during a battle with Kurdish militias. But the atmosphere among those in attendance at the memorial being held in Cubuk, about 40 kilometers (24.8 miles) north of Ankara, turned out to be tense and when Kilicdaroglu arrived, the situation escalated quickly. An angry mob surrounded the 70-year-old, hurling punches at him from all directions; the opposition leader took a few blows to the face. Grimacing in pain, he struggled to stay on his feet amidst the violent uproar. Kilicdaroglu's bodyguards surrounded him so as to shield him from the many attackers. Finally, they managed to escape into a house. But it didn't stop there: Kilicdaroglu had to wait inside while the house was besieged, with some of the men shouting "burn the house down." The attack sparked outrage on social media. On Twitter, hundreds of thousands of users expressed solidarity with the opposition leader by posting with the hashtag #KilicdarogluYalnizDegldir ("Kilicdaroglu is not alone"). A tweet from Eren Aysan, the daughter of famous Turkish poet Behcet Aysan, went viral: "My father was killed in the massacre in Sivas. In the last 26 years, I see that nothing has changed. Again, the call is "set the house on fire." Read more: Author Asli Erdogan speaks to DW about torture and imprisonment in Turkey Racist mob attacks prevented the family of politician Aysel Tugluk (in black, second from right) from burying Tugluk's mother, Hatun Kilicdaroglu: Not an isolated case The tweet hit a nerve. The words reminded many in Turkey that the mob attack at the funeral was not an isolated incident. Aysan's post bore particular weight because her poet father was killed in an instance of mob violence in the central city of Sivas in 1993. During an Alevi cultural festival, a mob of religious fanatics set fire to a hotel where most of the guests were Alevi. Thirty-seven people lost their lives in the arson attack. Another case of mob rule that evokes painful memories among the older Turkish generation occurred in 1977. In the Turkish province of Kahramanmaras, right-wing extremists close to the ultranationalist Nationalist Movement Party (MHP) massacred more than 100 Alevis, some of the killings took place in the open on the street. Many similar cases of mob attacks— especially against the Alevi minority —  have taken place in Turkey since the 1960s. In 2017, an angry crowd in Ankara blocked the funeral of the mother of Aysel Tugluk, deputy chair of the pro-Kurdish Peoples' Democratic Party (HDP) party. As a result, her mother Hatun Tugluk's body had to be removed from the grave and had to be buried in another city. This case and that of Kiricdaroglu have now brought the issue to the fore. Read more: After election gains, Kurds fear Erdogan's reach Send  Facebook   Twitter   google+   Whatsapp   Tumblr   linkedin   stumble   Digg   reddit   Newsvine Permalink https://p.dw.com/p/3BxC8 A sign of the times Critics say President Recep Tayyip Erdogan of the Justice and Development Party (AKP) needs to act. But Turkish Defense Minister Hulusi Akar, also present at the soldier's funeral, even expressed sympathy for the mob during the violent outburst: "Dear friends, you have made your point clear, please go home now," he said. Sociologist Besim Can Zirh from the Technical University of Ankara views mob rule as a "tried and tested tool" of the Turkish government in times of crisis. The anti-Alevi sentiment before the massacres in Kahramanmaras and Sivas was motivated by the fact that the minority was making progress establishing themselves socially and politically. Zirh believes that in secular groups in Turkey similar situations are being experienced. The lynching policy has three purposes: "It intimidates aspiring social groups, it serves as an outlet for political hatred of the population, and it sends a warning: do not dare deviate from the life path we have planned for you." Sezgi Durgun from Marmara University in Istanbul agrees that mob rule occurs mainly in volatile times: "Such incidents show how people have internalized violence," adding that "the most dangerous aspect of mob rule is that a single incident can lead to collective morality and spread an assumption that the rule of law no longer applies." According to Durgun, the lynching attempt illustrates that populism and heated debate now culminate in violent polarization. So it's hardly surprising that citizens, fueled by nationalistic sentiment, take the law into their own hands, he believes. Read more: The beginning of the end for Erdogan era 'We kiss the fists of those who punch' Academic Nagehan Tokdog agrees — she also sees the climate of uncertainty as a decisive factor. She believes that political instability and the economic crisis are responsible for the increase of aggression against various groups. But Tokdog also blames the Turkish mentality for the fact that there are more and more incidents, saying that Turkey is a country that only ever reluctantly concedes mistakes and crimes in society. "We cannot admit that such a thing is a disgrace. We just do not denounce acts like this. On the contrary, we kiss the fists of those who punch." Tokdog is referring to bizarre images that did the rounds on social media in the wake of the funeral after the incident: A person who managed to punch Kilicdaroglu in the face had his hand tenderly kissed after hitting the politician. Read more: 'Terrorist propaganda' lands mother and baby in jail While academics may use the "Turkish mentality" or a phase of political insecurity to explain the attack on the opposition leader, many others blame the AKP, even if the ruling party immediately distanced itself from the incident by saying "the AKP is against any form of violence." However, in the local elections over a month ago, he repeatedly accused Kilicdaroglu of supporting the banned Kurdistan Workers' Party, which is considered a terrorist organization. This polarizing rhetoric showed its true face in the Kilicdaroglu incident — investigators revealed that among the violent mob, AKP supporters were also present. After years of free market reforms, Turkey's transition slowly begins to reverse. Islamist Abdullah Gul's candidacy as president in 2007 marks a clear shift away from secularist policies, and strains relations between the ruling AKP and the military. However, with broad support from both conservative Muslims and liberals, the AKP wins the parliamentary elections and Gul is elected president. Then-Prime Minister Recep Tayyip Erdogan tables a constitutional reform increasing parliamentary control of the judiciary and army, effectively allowing the government to pick judges and senior military officials. The amendment, which is combined with measures also aimed at protecting child rights and the strengthening of the right to appeal, passed by a wide margin in a public referendum. Pent-up anger directed by young people at Erdogan, Gul and the Islamist-rooted AKP hits a boiling point in May 2013. The violent police breakup of a small sit-in aimed at protecting Istanbul's Gezi Park spurs one of the fiercest anti-government protests in years. Eleven people are killed and more than 8,000 injured, before the demonstrations eventually peter out a month later. A fragile ceasefire deal between the Turkish government and the Kurdish rebel PKK group breaks under the weight of tensions aggravated by the war in Syria. Military forces resume operations in the mostly Kurdish southeast of Turkey. In early 2016, the Kurdistan Freedom Hawks (TAK) — a breakaway PKK faction — claim responsibility for two bombings in Ankara, each killing 38 people. A military coup attempt against the government shakes Turkey to its core and briefly turns the country into a war zone. Some 260 civilians die in overnight clashes with the army across five major cities. Erdogan, however, rallies supporters and the following morning rebel soldiers are ambushed by thousands of civilians on the Bosporus Bridge. The troops eventually drop their guns and surrender. In the aftermath of the failed coup, Erdogan announces a state of emergency, leading to arrests of tens of thousands of suspected coup sympathizers and political opponents. Among those detained are military and judiciary officials and elected representatives from the pro-Kurdish HDP party. The purge is later expanded to include civil servants, university officials and teachers. As part of Erdogan's crackdown against supposed "terrorist sympathizers," Turkey becomes one of the world's leading jailers of journalists, according to Reporters Without Borders. The government shuts down around 110 media outlets in the year following the coup and imprisons more than 100 journalists, including German-Turkish correspondent Deniz Yücel. With a referendum on expanding Erdogan's presidential powers set for April 2016, AKP officials look to galvanize support among Turks living in Europe, particularly in Germany and the Netherlands. However, the Netherlands forbids Turkish Foreign Minister Mevlut Cavusoglu from landing in the country, while Germany opts to cancel two rallies. Erdogan accuses both countries of Nazi-style repression. Erdogan narrowly wins the referendum vote expanding his power. As a result, Turkey's parliamentary system is abolished in favor of a strong executive presidency. Erdogan is also allowed to remain in power potentially until 2029. However, international election monitors claim that opposition voices were muzzled and that media coverage was dominated by figures from the "yes" campaign. Erdogan secures a new five-year term and sweeping new executive powers after winning landmark elections on June 24. His AKP and their nationalist allies also win a majority in parliament. International observers criticize the vote, saying media coverage and emergency measures gave Erdogan and the AKP an "undue advantage" in the vote. Author: David Martin