The European Court of Justice (ECJ) ruled on Tuesday that EU member states must require employers to set up a system that tracks time worked each day by each employee to ensure labor laws are complied with. "Member States must require employers to set up an objective, reliable and accessible system enabling the duration of time worked each day by each worker to be measured," the court said in its ruling. The court said the implementation of such systems, and particularly what form they must take, is up to the member states. A German confederation of employers said that the ruling was tantamount to demanding a return to workers punching in and punching out on arrival and departure, calling this impractical given modern working practices, smartphones, home offices and the like. Spanish trade union and Deutsche Bank The ruling stems from a lawsuit by the Comisiones Obreras (CCOO), a Spanish trade union, against the Spanish subsidiary of Deutsche Bank. In the suit, CCOO sought to compel the German bank to set up a system for recording time worked each day. They said that this would help the union ensure the bank was complying with labor laws, including the obligation to send unions information regarding overtime worked each month. Deutsche Bank argued that Spanish law does not require employers to set up such a time tracking system. However, the ECJ determined that adherence to the EU's Charter of Fundamental Rights and the bloc's Working Time Directive superseded national laws. "The Court holds that, in the absence of a system enabling the duration of time worked each day by each worker to be measured, it is not possible to determine, objectively and reliably, either the number of hours worked and when that work was done, or the number of hours of overtime worked, which makes it excessively difficult, if not impossible in practice, for workers to ensure that their rights are complied with," the ECJ said. Workers in Bangladesh saw through logs to make a living so that they can support their families. A man waves a flag with a portrait of the Argentine revolutionary Che Guevara during a concert to celebrate May Day in Rome's Piazza San Giovanni in 2014. This banner reads, "Throw down the tandem" and depicts Putin as the Madonna holding his "child" (then-President Dmitry Medvedev) during the 2011 May Day rally in Moscow. During Soviet times, May Day celebrated the toils of the proletariat. Under Putin, crowds again gather in cities from the Pacific port of Vladivostok to Moscow for carefully choreographed rallies. Supporters of the Ecuadoran opposition march in commemoration of May Day in Quito in 2015. It's May Day's oldest mantra, this time on display in Bremen in 2009. Banners read: "Work for everybody, with fair wages." Thousands of workers gathered in the capital, Jakarta, to demand better working conditions in 2015. Youngsters attend a concert to celebrate May Day in Rome's Piazza San Giovanni in 2013. Workers take part in the May Day parade organized by the Farabundo Marti National Liberation Front and various worker unions in San Salvador in 2014. People attend the May Day demonstration a few days before the final round of the 2007 presidential elections. "Stop Sarko" the opposition, futilely that year, demanded, referring to then-President Nicolas Sarkozy. An opponent of the Venezuelan government wears a Guy Fawkes mask during the 2014 May Day demonstration in Caracas. Opponents and supporters of the government of Venezuelan President Nicolas Maduro marched in Caracas to commemorate the Workers' Day. Anti-capitalists wear makeshift body armor at the 2002 May Day demonstration in London. There were sporadic clashes with police throughout the day, but the demonstration was mostly peaceful. Activists from different organizations shout slogans and wave flags during the 2011 procession to mark May Day in the capital, Dhaka. May Day is not even a holiday in the United States. Still, demonstrators marched in the 2014 May Day protest in Los Angeles. They were demanding immigration reform and better pay and working conditions. Author: Bruce Konviser Praise and criticism in Germany The ECJ decision was met with both applause and scorn in Germany, the EU's biggest economy. The German Trade Union Confederation (DGB) said in a statement that the decision puts an end to what it called "flat-rate work." It claimed that the number of unpaid overtime hours has been "at an unacceptably high level for years." "That is not just wage and time theft — within a year, employers line their pockets with approximately €18 billion," Annelie Buntenbach, a member of the DGB executive committee, said as part of the statement. Conversely, the Confederation of German Employers' Associations (BDA) criticized the move as backwards, saying in a statement that it is "against the reintroduction of a time clock in the 21st century." The BDA also argued that employees, especially ones with flexible hours, should be obligated to record the time they work themselves. Send  Facebook   Twitter   google+   Whatsapp   Tumblr   linkedin   stumble   Digg   reddit   Newsvine Permalink https://p.dw.com/p/3HiYf dv/msh (AP, epd, KNA) Every evening, DW sends out a selection of the day's news and features. Sign up here.