Reactions from the rest of Europe started flowing in shortly after Theresa May announced she will step down as British prime minister on June 7. May's decision comes at a time when the legislation covering the UK's exit from the EU remains stuck in Parliament, as lawmakers have so far been unable to agree on the contours of a withdrawal agreement. Read more: Theresa May becomes UK's latest Brexit political casualty German Chancellor Angela Merkel was keen to extol the virtues of her relationship with May, saying: "I always worked very well with the British Prime Minister." Merkel also stressed that future relations would remain unharmed, despite the upheaval. "Britain's departure from the European Union is a major transition and regardless of what happens now in Britain, the German government will do everything to achieve a good partnership, an orderly exit and good cooperation," she said. French President Emmanuel Macron urged "rapid clarification" from Britain on what it wants from Brexit. In a statement released by the Elysee Palace, Macron said he stands ready to work with a new British prime minister, but that "the principles of the EU will continue to apply, with the priority on the smooth functioning of the EU." Irish Prime Minister Leo Varadkar warned that the election of a new prime minister in Britain may lead to a new phase in Brexit negotiations that could be "very dangerous" for Ireland. "We may see the election of a euroskeptic prime minister who wants to repudiate the withdrawal agreement and go for no deal or we may even see a new British government that wants to see a closer relationship with the EU and goes for a second referendum," Varadkar told Ireland's Virgin Media News. "But whatever happens we are going to hold our nerve. We are going to strengthen and build our alliances across the European Union and we will make sure that we see Ireland through this," Varadkar said.  Boris Johnson is the bookmakers' favorite to become Britain's next prime minister. 'BoJo' is widely tipped following stints as mayor of London and as foreign secretary in Theresa May's government. The 54-year-old sparked controversy in 2018 following remarks on women wearing burqas saying that it was "absolutely ridiculous that people should choose to go around looking like letter boxes.” Former Brexit Secretary Dominic Raab is likely to be Johnson's main rival. The son of a Jewish refugee who fled Nazi Germany, Raab is the second favorite to become the UK's next prime minister. He was widely mocked in 2018 when he said "hadn't quite understood" how reliant UK trade is on the Dover-Calais crossing. An ally of Theresa May, Lidington is seen as a potential successor but his pro-remain record, having served as Europe minister from 2010 to 2016, may prevent him from ultimately landing the role. Could yet take over on an interim basis as the Tory party seek a permanent leader. A leading driver behind the Brexit campaign, Gove may try again to become Prime Minister after a failed effort to succeed David Cameron in 2016. Gove, who had initially backed Boris Johnson in that contest, withdrew his support and announced his own candidacy. Foreign Secretary Jeremy Hunt is an outside bet. The 52-year-old, who voted to remain in the European Union, has subsequently changed his stance. Since succeeding Johnson in the role of dealing with foreign affairs, he claimed that Brussels came across as "arrogant" during Brexit negotiations. Andrea Leadsom, who resigned from her cabinet position in the week of May's announcement, is also a contender. Leadsom, who came second in a leadership bid in 2016, was heavily criticized at the time for saying that being a mother would give her an advantage as prime minister. This was seen in a poor light as Theresa May had previously spoken of her anguish at not being able to conceive. Previously the 150/1 long shot with the bookmakers, Steve Baker's odds have tumbled after he refused to rule out a leadership bid following messages of support from his constituents. 'Woman of courage' Dutch Prime Minister Mark Rutte said that he had spoken to May to convey his thanks and respect following her announcement. He tweeted that "the deal reached between the European Union and Britain for an orderly Brexit remains on the table." Czech Prime Minister Andrej Babis said he hopes Britons will have the opportunity to hold fresh elections to choose the country's leadership followed by a second Brexit referendum, adding that such a result would be "the best for all." "I still hope that [Britain] will hold a snap election and at the end they will have one more referendum," he said. "That the [British] people finally understand that the misinformation that they received [about Brexit] is not true and Britain will stay in the European Union." Spain, however, warned that a hard Brexit seems almost impossible to avoid after May's resignation. "The British government, the British Parliament" would be "solely responsible for a no-deal exit [from the EU] and its consequences," said Spanish government spokeswoman Isabel Celaa. Predicting "difficult times" ahead, Celaa said Britain's anticipated "disorderly exit" was "a clear example of what can happen if we let ourselves get swept along by extremes." Meanwhile, the European Commission said President Jean-Claude Juncker will "equally respect and establish working relations" with the new UK prime minister, "whoever that might be." Juncker also lauded May as "a woman of courage," and said he viewed her resignation "without personal joy." Britain is set to leave the EU without a deal on October 31 unless an agreement can be reached with the bloc that is also acceptable to Britain's Parliament. Send  Facebook   Twitter   google+   Whatsapp   Tumblr   linkedin   stumble   Digg   reddit   Newsvine Permalink https://p.dw.com/p/3J0CT sri/rt (AP, AFP, Reuters, dpa) Every evening at 1830 UTC, DW's editors send out a selection of the day's hard news and quality feature journalism. You can sign up to receive it directly here.