A baby thought to be the world's tiniest surviving infant has been discharged from a San Diego hospital after five months in intensive care. The baby girl weighed just 245 grams (8.6 ounces) and measured 23 centimeters (9 inches) when she was born in December. She was delivered via an emergency cesarean section 23 weeks and three days into her mother's pregnancy. A typical pregnancy lasts 40 weeks. "It was the scariest day of my life," the girl's mother said in a video released by the Sharp Mary Birch Hospital for Women & Newborns. The family wished to remain anonymous, but allowed the girl to be identified as Saybie — the name nurses gave her. Read more: Japanese apple-weight baby boy ready to go home at almost 7 months Miracle baby Doctors told Saybie's father after the birth that he would only have an hour with his daughter before she died. "But that hour turned into two hours, which turned into a day, which turned into a week," the mother said. Saybie is listed as the world's smallest baby to survive on the Tiniest Baby Registry maintained by the University of Iowa. The baby girl weighed about as much as an apple, or a hamster, when she was born in December Dr Edward Bell, a professor of pediatrics at the university, told The Associated Press that Saybie had the lowest medically confirmed birth weight in their records. But "we cannot rule out even smaller infants who have not been reported to the registry," he said. The world's previous smallest baby in the registry was a girl from the western German city of Witten, who weighed 252 grams when she was born in 2015. Micro-preemies — infants born before 28 weeks of gestation — have a slim chance of survival and can often suffer a range of health complications. Saybie gradually gained weight over the five months she spent in the neonatal intensive care unit and left the hospital in May as a healthy 2.26-kilogram infant. "I feel blessed," her mother said. "She's the smallest baby in the world and she's mine!" Meghan and Prince Harry have revealed their two-day-old son to the public, with the proud new mother declaring that the baby is "a dream." They eventually revealed the name: Archie Harrison Mountbatten-Windsor. He is the seventh in line to the throne. Prince William and Kate introduced their third child to the world seven hours after his birth on April 23, 2018. While the boy was born on St George's Day, the Duke and Duchess of Cambridge had to find another name for the fifth-in-line to the throne, as George is the name given to his older brother. They picked Louis Arthur Charles, and he will be known as Prince Louis. Kate Middleton, Duchess of Cambridge, gave birth to Prince William's first child on July 22, 2013. Officially called George Alexander Louis, Prince George became a big brother on May 2, 2015. The boy is third in line to succeed his great-grandmother, after his grandfather Charles and his father. George's little sister, Princess Charlotte Elizabeth Diana, was born on May 2, 2015. Her name, which honors both her grandmother and great-grandmother, was announced two days later. This photo shows her at the age of one in 2016. Following changes in the rules of succession privileging male heirs, Princess Charlotte remains fourth in line to the throne, even though she now has a baby brother. These happy chubby cheeks belong to none other than Queen Elizabeth II. She is in the arms of her mother Elizabeth, the Duchess of York. Her father was the future King George VI. Elizabeth II's birth was a difficult one: The heiress to the throne was finally delivered via C-section on April 21, 1926. She grew up with her younger sister Margaret (1930-2002). Today, she is 92 years old. This young boy was born on June 10, 1921. At the time, Philip, Duke of Edinburgh didn't realize that about 25 years later he would be asking the hand of a future queen in marriage: Elizabeth II. Philip's father had already arranged a meeting with the then 13-year-old heiress to the throne in 1939. At the time, Philip was still a student at the Royal Naval College. Today he is 96 years old. Charles Philip Arthur George, better known as Prince Charles, was born on November 14, 1948. When he was four years old, his mother, Elizabeth II, ascended the throne. As the eldest child, Charles is the royal heir and Duke of Cornwall. This baby would later become royal. Lady Di was born on July 1, 1961. In 1981, she married Prince Charles under the eyes of some 750 million television viewers worldwide. The failure of their marriage would be just as publicized. Diana's death in a car accident on the night of August 31, 1997 would be followed by another media frenzy. Her fans still mourn her today. Prince William Arthur Philip Louis Mountbatten-Windsor was born on June 21, 1982 in London. After their parents separated in 1992, William and his brother Harry lived alternately with Princess Diana in London's Kensington Palace or with their father and grandmother Elizabeth II at the Royal Court. Lady Di would certainly have been proud of her now big kids having their own children. His real name is Prince Henry Charles Albert David Mountbatten-Windsor. But the world prefers to simply call him Prince Harry. The sandy-haired baby was born on September 15, 1984. Harry's excessive partying as a teenager would later make tabloid headlines. He managed to get rid of his bad-boy image by marrying Meghan Markle — and now having a child of his own. Author: Ananda Bräunig (eg) nm/cmk (AFP, AP) Every evening, DW sends out a selection of the day's news and features. Sign up here.