The Republican-dominated Senate in the US state of Alabama passed a bill on Tuesday outlawing nearly all abortions, including in cases of rape and incest. The measure is set to be the strictest abortion law in the United States if approved by Republican Governor Kay Ivey, who has withheld comment on whether she will sign it. If signed into law, the bill would go into effect in six months. The legislation is certain to face legal challenges. Read more: White House, US states strive to limit abortions at home and abroad Republican lawmakers and anti-abortion activists hope the legislation will lead to the Supreme Court overturning its landmark 1973 Roe vs. Wade decision legalizing abortion nationwide. They have been emboldened after the top court swung conservative after President Donald Trump named two judges to it.In supporting the bill, Republican state Senator Clyde Chambliss admitted the whole point is "so that we can go directly to the Supreme Court to challenge Roe versus Wade." The law, which passed 25-6, would make performing abortions at any stage of pregnancy a felony punishable by up to 99 years in prison.  Women undergoing an abortion would not be subject to punishment. There is an exception for when a women's health is at serious risk. An amendment providing an exception for rape and incest was rejected 21-11, with four Republicans joining Democrats supporting the amendment. All 27 Republican lawmakers in the 35-seat Senate are men. Women's rights under assault Opponents accused Republicans of trying to score political points and endangering women's health. "You don't care anything about babies having babies in this state, being raped and incest," Democratic Senator Bobby Singleton said after the amendment's defeat. "You just aborted the state of Alabama with your rhetoric with this bill." Singleton pointed out that those who perform abortions could get more prison time than a woman's rapist. Democratic state Senator Linda Coleman-Madison labeled Republicans hypocrites for demanding small government that does not interfere in private matters but "now you want in my womb; I want you out." Staci Fox, CEO and president of Planned Parenthood Southeast, said Republicans were endangering women's health "This is nothing but a political game and women are the pawns," she said. "Let's be honest, banning abortion does not stop abortion. It stops safe and legal abortion." Send  Facebook   Twitter   google+   Whatsapp   Tumblr   linkedin   stumble   Digg   reddit   Newsvine Permalink https://p.dw.com/p/36Pfv Legislation in other states The Alabama bill goes further than other legislation introduced by Republicans in 14 states seeking to restrict abortions. Read more: US actress Alyssa Milano calls for sex strike over Georgia abortion law This year, Georgia, Kentucky, Mississippi and Ohio have outlawed abortion once a heartbeat is detected. Abortion rights supporters call the "heartbeat" legislation a de facto ban on abortion because fetal cardiac activity can be detected as early as six weeks, before a woman may know she is pregnant. cw/sms (AP, Reuters) Every evening, DW sends out a selection of the day's news and features. Sign up here.