Thailand's King Maha Vajiralongkorn on Saturday began undergoing a series of centuries-old Hindu and Buddhist ceremonies to symbolically transform him into a living god, as the country held its first coronation since 1950. Events include a purification ritual with consecrated water, a crowning ceremony, a  parade, and an appearance by the monarch on a balcony of the Grand Palace in the Thai capital, Bangkok. King Vajiralongkorn, 66 — takes on the name Rama X of the Chakri dynasty as one of his many official titles — ascended the throne in 2016 upon the death of his father, King Bhumibol Adulyadej, in October of that year. The coronation comes following a period of mourning for the late king, who reigned in the Southeast Asian country for almost 70  years. In a traditional first royal command made after his crowning, the king said "I shall reign in righteousness for the benefits of the kingdom and the people forever." Streets before the Grand Palace were lined with officials ahead of the coronation Later Saturday, the king held an audience for royal family members, the Privy Council and top government officials, who paid their respects and pledged allegiance to king and country. The king was then carried on an ornately decorated palanquin to the Temple of the Emerald Buddha where he proclaimed himself the royal patron of Buddhism. Surprise marriage announcement The king was accompanied by new Queen Suthida, the thrice-divorced monarch's fourth wife. Their marriage was announced just three days before the coronation. Thailand is known among other things for its harsh lese-majeste laws, under which negative public comments about the monarchy are subject to severe penalties. During his short reign so far, King Vajiralongkorn has gained the explicit right to intervene in political affairs, especially in times of political crisis, which are many in Thailand. In one of Saturday's ceremonies, the king put on a crown weighing 7.3 kilograms (16 pounds) and measuring 66 centimeters (26 inches) in height. It symbolizes his royal powers, which include the right to intervene in government affairs. "I shall reign in righteousness for the benefits of the kingdom and the people forever," he said in his traditional first royal command. King Maja Vajiralongkorn arrived at the Grand Palace in Bangkok in a Rolls-Royce, with streets before the building lined with officials. Although he has already reigned as constitutional monarch since 2016, the ceremonies will fully and formally invest him with regal power. No coronation would be complete without immaculately attired King's Guard soldiers. Thailand's army plays a major role in the country's politics and the country is currently ruled by a military junta since a 2014 coup. But opposition politicians are seeking to push the army out of politics. Cannon were fired to salute the king while ceremonies began in the Grand Palace. Horns and pipes also accompanied the moment when the king was anointed with consecrated water taken from more than a hundred sites across the country. The king donned a white robe for the Royal Purification Ceremony, which saw him showered with water from old royal water vessels. The rites are a combination of Hindu and Buddhist practices and go back centuries. The king, who will also be known as Rama X, is the 10th in the Chakri dynasty, which has reigned since 1782. The coronation, costing around $31 million (€27.6 million), was broadcast on television, with subjects also able to watch it on LED screens sited outside the palace. But people should avoid making any negative comments about the coronation or the king or they may risk severe penalties for lese-majeste. Author: Timothy Jones The country has been run by an arch-royalist junta since 2014. Critics say that an election held in March was rigged to favor the military and its preferred candidate, Prayuth Chan-Ocha. He led the coup that saw the powerful army entrenched in government and has led the junta since then. Efforts by a "democratic front" are currently underway to remove the army from politics. Read more: Thailand election highlights a divided society Send  Facebook   Twitter   google+   Whatsapp   Tumblr   linkedin   stumble   Digg   reddit   Newsvine Permalink https://p.dw.com/p/3HoOZ tj/rc (AFP, Reuters, AP) Each evening at 1830 UTC, DW's editors send out a selection of the day's hard news and quality feature journalism. You can sign up to receive it directly here.