Broccoli, Brussels sprouts and kale all have something in common, and it's not the fact that that they're the vegetables you're most likely to guilt yourself into buying only to leave rotting in your fridge (or dousing and frying with a hefty amont of olive oil). Harvard researchers recently discovered that the three green vegetables, along with a variety of other cruciferous counterparts such as cauliflower and cabbage, contain a molecule that blocks a gene known to play a role in a variety of common human cancers. The molecule isn't a big, life-altering discovery yet. You'd have to eat nearly 6 pounds of uncooked Brussels sprouts a day to reap their potential anti-cancer benefit, according to  Yu-Ru Lee, one of the study's authors. If you want to benefit from the cancer-inhibiting benefits of Brussels sprouts, you need to eat them raw. But the ways in which scientists can use the molecule could have big implications for the future of cancer treatment, according to a study published on Thursday in Science led by Pier Paolo Pandolfi, a director of cancer research at the Beth Israel Deaconess Medical Center. The centeris a patient care, teaching and research affiliate of Harvard Medical School. How did researchers figure this out? Tumorous cancers are typically caused by the activation of cancer-prone genes and/or the suppression of cancer-fighting genes. Scientists have historically focused therapy solutions on targeting the mutations which activate cancer-prone genes. Chemotherapy, which kills cancer cells through methods such as radiation therapy, is an example of this method. Scientists have paid less attention to possible therapies activating cancer-fighting genes. In the study, researchers focused on the common tumor-suppressing PTEN protein. The protein, when fully functioning, usually keeps our bodies from developing tumors. It is not uncommon for researchers to discover missing or mutated PTEN proteins in cancer patients. This makes sense; when the protein is mutated, it can't fully serve its tumor suppressing purpose any longer, making the body more susceptible to cancer. Tumor cells will contain smaller, less effective amounts of PTEN, lowering its suppressive abilities. Future implications So what if scientists could find a way to rejuvenate tumor cells with proper levels of the PTEN protein? And if they could find a way to do it, would it work? Through a series of experiments on cancer-prone lab mice, researchers discovered a gene called WWP1 — which also plays a role in cancer development — that blocks the PTEN protein's ability to suppress tumors. Asparagus also contains the WWP1-inhibiting molecule After further examination of the WWP1 gene's structure, scientists found that the small molecule found in broccoli may be able to block it, thus allowing the PTEN protein to grow normally. Researchers administered the broccoli molecule to the cancer-prone mice and found that it does, indeed, block WWP1, allowing the tumor-suppressing PTEN protein to serve its cancer-fighting function. To put it simply, instead of blocking cancer-causing agents, this therapy would activate cancer-fighting agents. "These findings pave the way toward a long-sought tumor suppressor reactivation approach to cancer treatment,"  Pandolfi said. For some, this flavor bomb can be a source of awkwardness because of its strong aroma. But the sulphur-containing compound, Allicin, that is responsible for garlic's pungent odor is also its best asset: it contains antibacterial, antifungal and antiviral properties. Eating garlic has been proven to regulate blood pressure and prevent thrombosis. While you might have only seen a few, there are over 200 different types of thyme. The most common is the "Thymus vulgaris" — the bush-like plant with tiny, but pungent leaves and small lilac-colored flowers. The naturally occuring Rosmarinic acid found in thyme is known to lower cholesterol levels. Thyme is also a traditional remedy for colds and is commonly used as an ingredient in cough syrup. Cinnamon is said to have an accelerating effect on the metabolism. But the fragrant spice does contain one particularly harmful element: coumarin. This naturally occurring flavor can lead to liver damage in sensitive people (although the damage can usually be reversed). Cassia cinnamon contains much larger quantities of coumarin compared to Ceylon cinnamon. If you want to treat yourself to the expensive, vivid red threads to embellish your spice collection, you'll also be doing your health a favor. Studies have shown that saffron has a positive effect on our psychological wellbeing and can help with depression. The smell of the spice alone is said to alleviate symptoms of premenstrual syndrome (PMS). Although anise and the star anise shown above are not botanically related, they both contain an essential oil that has a similar composition and is responsible for the liquorice-fennel smell. Anise is best known for its antispasmodic effect on the digestive tract. Both types of anise are also said to have anti-inflammatory properties. As far as taste is concerned, ginger might be a divisive one. But hardly anyone denies the beneficial effect of the root for fighting the onset of a cold. In Chinese and Ayurvedic medicine, ginger has long been used as a remedy for inflammation — for example, in rheumatism or arthritis. The root also contains pain-relieving essential oils and antioxidants. This bold, yellow-colored spice is commonly used as an ingredient in curry powder. It's said to have three main health benefits: it lowers cholesterol levels, has an antioxidant effect and reduces inflammation. And because it slows down age-related changes in the brain, it could reduce the risk of Alzheimer's. Author: Julia Vergin