The body of water long immortalized in Johann Strauss II's famous waltz "The Blue Danube" received an edgy new superlative on Monday: Along with being Europe's second-longest river, the Danube is now the continent's most drug-polluted. Rivers from the Thames in England to the Tigris in Iraq host concentrations of antibiotics exceeding safe levels by up to 300 times, which could play a role in human drug resistance, according to the first international study of its kind presented on Monday. Scientists from the University of York in England tested for 14 commonly used antibiotics in rivers in 72 countries. They found antibiotics at 65 percent of the surveyed sites, causing scientists and policy makers to recognize the role of the natural environment in the antimicrobial resistance problem, according to Professor Alistair Boxall, Theme Leader of the York Environmental Sustainability Institute. Read more here: Environmental cost of quenching world's thirst Water pollution can take many forms The World Health Organization classifies antibiotic resistance, or the increasing ineffectiveness of antibiotics, as "one of the biggest threats to global health, food security, and development today.” The UN declared it a national emergency last year, warning that over 10 million people could die as a result of resistance by 2050, outnumbering the amount of deaths due to cancer, and around 24 million people could be forced out of their homes by 2030. Resistance is a naturally occurring process that can be hastened by improper use of the medicines, according to the organization. This includes improper waste disposal methods, overuse by physicians and misuse in agriculture.  It currently kills around 700,000 people per year, according to the UN. Read more here: Chicken meat rife with antibiotic-resistant superbugs Sites in Africa exceeded safe levels of antibiotic pollution "Antimicrobial compounds from households, hospitals, pharmaceutical facilities and agricultural run-off released into the environment, combined with direct contact between natural bacterial communities and discharged resistant bacteria, is driving bacterial evolution and the emergence of more resistant strains," a UN report on antibiotic resistance said. When people grow resistant to antibiotics, the medications do not work for them, causing infections and diseases to persist. The latest study marks the first time many of the respective rivers have been systematically tested for a large number of antibiotics. The concentrations of drugs  could contribute to antibiotic resistance, the researchers fear. "Until now, the majority of environmental monitoring work for antibiotics has been done in Europe, North America and in China, often on only a handful of antibiotics," Dr. John Wilkinson, from the York University Department of Environment and Geography said. "We know very little about the scale of problem globally,” Read more here: 90 years after penicillin: Artilysin could replace antibiotics The pollution can be attributed to improper waste methods Trimethoprim, an antibiotic used to treat urinary tract infections, was found most frequently at 307 of the 711 sites, while Metronidazole, which is used to treat skin and mouth infections, was found to be the least safe. Ciprofloxacin, which treats bacterial infections, was found to exceed safe levels most often. Bangladesh, Kenya, Ghana, Pakistan and Nigeria hosted the highest concentration of unsafe sites, which were often in the vicinity of wastewater treatment systems and waste and sewage dumps, researchers found. They also found higher concentrations in areas of political unrest, such as the Israeli-Palestinian border. In Europe, the most hazardous site was found on the Danube in Austria. Both Boxall and the UN are calling for stricter regulations on antibiotic waste disposal. Making headlines in the US at the moment, Candida auris is an emerging fungus that's proving multidrug-resistant to antifungal medication commonly used to treat Candida infections. It's appeared on five continents so far and been so hard to get rid of some hospitals have had to close down to eliminate it. Healthy people aren't usually infected, but those who are unwell or need surgery are at risk. This highly resistant, "nightmare bug" has been classified by the WHO as one of the biggest threats to human health. Thriving in wet or moist places, it's one of the hardest bacteria to eradicate. It's usually only seen in people with weakened immune systems, but healthy people can also get ear and skin infections if they come into contact with it, especially after being around contaminated water. There's no vaccine for gonorrhea, so antibiotics are the only option for treating infections. But this sexually-transmitted disease is increasingly resistant to the drugs — azithromycin, cefixime and ceftriaxone — normally used to treat it. Two cases of so-called super gonorrhea were reported in Australia in 2018 and another two in the UK in early 2019. Another good reason to always wear a condom! This bug is best known for causing non-typhoidal foodborne infections, but it can also cause typhoid fever in humans. In the last few decades, a highly virulant, antibiotic-resistant strain has emerged. Spread through contaminated food and water, regions including Asia and Africa are experiencing epidemics of the drug-resistant bacteria. Ranked in the highest-risk category of pathogens by the WHO, this bug is commonly found in soil and water and can take on genes from other resistant bacteria. It's able to survive in healthy patients without causing symptoms, but can cause deadly lung, blood and wound infections in unwell patients. This is why outbreaks of Acinetobacter infections are usually seen in intensive care units. Myobacterium tuberculosis is one of the world's leading infectious diseases, causing more than 1.7 million deaths each year. It's estimated that up to 13 percent of all new tuberculosis cases are multidrug-resistant — unresponsive to two of the most potent treatments — and six percent are extensively drug-resistant, unresponsive to even more. These sufferers are more likely to get diseases or die. Author: Charli Shield 