Police in the French city of Lyon said on Friday there is an ongoing operation on the central street Rue Victor Hugo. They are searching for a man believed to be the perpetrator of what French President Emmanuel Macron called an "attack." "It's not for me to give a toll but it appears there are no casualties," said Macron. "There have been injuries, so obviously I'm thinking of these injured and their families." Police have urged people to avoid the area. Transport authorities said they closed the nearby Ampere-Victor Hugo and Bellecour metro stations. Read more: Racist or Islamist — lone-wolf attackers show similar patterns French soldiers were deployed to secure the area Calls for calm Prosecutors said they believe a "parcel bomb" was likely the cause of the explosion, which injured at least 13 people. However, police said they have not yet determined the source. Local media reports said the package was filled with screws, citing police sources. However, David Kimelfeld, president of greater Lyon, urged calm, saying it was still too early to determine the cause. "We must remain prudent and wait for the analysis of the circumstances and not panic the Lyon population," said Kimelfeld in a TV interview. Read more: Why French police officers keep committing suicide Police have cordoned off the area 'Reinforce security' French Interior Minister Christophe Castaner said he has instructed all police prefects to "reinforce the security of public sites and events." Paris' counterterrorism authority announced that it has opened a probe into the explosion. France has been on high-alert since the "Islamic State" militant group launched a series of attacks across Paris, killing 130 people and injuring scores more. Lyon is set to host matches in the Women's World Cup football tournament. Read more: Is France's deradicalization strategy missing the point? Every evening, DW's editors send out a selection of the day's hard news and quality feature journalism. You can sign up to receive it directly here. Send  Facebook   Twitter   google+   Whatsapp   Tumblr   linkedin   stumble   Digg   reddit   Newsvine Permalink https://p.dw.com/p/33s2s ls/sms (AFP, Reuters)