Britain's Prince Charles and his wife Camilla arrived at Berlin Tegel Airport and were greeted by a Guard of Honour on Tuesday. They then went to the Federal Chancellery where they met Angela Merkel. The 70-year-old, who is next in line to the British throne, then met German president Frank-Walter Steinmeier, before going to the Berlin Airlift Memorial with the Mayor of Berlin, Mike Mueller. In a speech delivered in English and German on Tuesday evening, Charles said that the ties between the UK and Germany should remain strong in the future — an indirect reference to Britain's pending departure from the European Union. "Whatever the shape of our future relationship, and whatever is negotiated and agreed between governments and institutions, it is more clear for me than it has ever been that the bonds between us will and must endure," the prince said. Prince Charles and President Frank-Walter Steinmeier "We are friends and natural partners, bound by common experiences, interests and values, and our futures are deeply entwined," he added, commenting on his family's roots in the German aristocracy. The Royals arrived in Germany a day after Charles' younger son, Prince Harry, announced that he and his wife Meghan, Duchess of Sussex have had their first child, a baby boy. Charles told crowds that he "couldn't be more delighted" at the news and that he and Camilla "are looking forward to meeting the baby when we return." The couple are due to visit Leipzig on Wednesday and Munich on Thursday. Queen Elizabeth II in Bonn with Germany's then President Heinrich Lübke (1965) German genealogy Prince Charles' great, great, great grandfather Prince Albert, was born 200 years ago in 1819 in Saxe-Coburg-Saalfeld. Aged 20, he married his first cousin, Queen Victoria and they went on to have 9 children before Albert died in Windsor in 1861. Britain's royal family was previously known by the German names Saxe-Coburg-Gotha. In 1917, King George V adopted the name Windsor in response to widespread anti-German sentiment during World War I. The present House of Windsor has family ties with most of the monarchs in Europe. The queen visited Germany for the first time in May 1965, and has returned several times since. During her inaugural visit, she spent 11 days touring Germany, including stops in the then capital, Bonn, and also in Berlin, and 16 other cities. The British royal family are hugely popular in Germany, which in the absence of its own royal household, has a celebrity media focus on those European nations that have prominent ones. Queen Elizabeth II and her husband, Prince Philip, started their visit in Berlin on Tuesday evening, with the British monarch welcomed by a 21-gun salute and military jets flying overhead. Fans of British royalty took to the streets of Berlin to try and catch a glimpse of the queen on her way to the Hotel Adlon. Here the royal Bentley passes the famous Brandenburg Gate. After arriving to Berlin on Tuesday evening, the queen's entourage probably didn't have a difficult time finding their rooms overlooking the Brandenburg Gate. The Hotel Adlon flew the royal standard the queen's suite. Berlin police said it would deploy close to 1,500 officers to keep the queen safe, during her first visit to Germany in a decade. Wednesday's first meeting saw Queen Elizabeth be received by German head of state Joachim Gauck in the president's residence, Bellevue Castle. After meeting President Gauck, the queen and her husband took a cruise down Berlin's Spree River in an open-topped boat. Queen Elizabeth II and her husband, Prince Philip, have been married since 1947, six years before the queen's coronation. The Duke of Edinburgh turned 94 in June. German Chancellor Angela Merkel welcomed the queen on at the Chancellery. Merkel also had a meeting scheduled with British Prime Minister David Cameron. The queen laid a wreath at Neue Wache, the Berlin's memorial site for the victims of war and violence. On Thursday, the Queen and her husband will visit the former Nazi concentration camp Bergen-Belsen, which was liberated by British troops in April 1945. kw/jm (AP, Reuters) Every evening at 1830 UTC, DW's editors send out a selection of the day's hard news and quality feature journalism. You can sign up to receive it directly here.