The festival is closely associated with an orchestra that does the same, the Baltic Sea Philharmonic, whose programs with music director Kristjan Järvi can be many things, but never dull. This one has a name: "Nordic Pulse." This performance from the festival's most recent season marked the 100th year of independence of five countries on the Baltic: Estonia, Finland, Latvia, Lithuania and Poland. Wojciech Kilar is known internationally on the strength of his film music, but the Polish composer also wrote a piece for strings. "Orawa" belongs to a cycle of works having to do with Podhale and its inhabitants. Podhale is a mountainous region in southern Poland, sometimes referred to as the Polish highlands, a place rich in folklore. Norwegian violinist Mari Samuelsen Lithuanian composer Gediminas Gelgotas creates a kind of minimalism with influences from pop and folk music. Premiering in 2015 in Zurich, his work "Mountains. Waters. (Freedom)" has to do with processes of nature. The program also includes music by not only the most famous composer from Estonia, but the most famous Estonian alive, Arvo Pärt, also the world's most often performed contemporary composer. His creations in a simple but very strictly structured style match a worldwide fascination for the Middle Ages and spiritual renewal. The first standout piece of this vein is "Fratres" (Brothers) from 1977. The Baltic Sea Philharmonic's founder and artistic director, Kristjan Järvi, has wide-ranging musical interests and is himself also a composer. His piece named "Aurora" is inspired by the play of light and colors at sunrise. Kristjan Järvi is open to a variety of music, particularly the energetic kind Wojciech Kilar  Orawa Gediminas Gelgotas Mountains. Waters. (Freedom) Arvo Pärt Fratres for violin, percussion and strings Kristjan Järvi Aurora for violin and orchestra performed by: Mari Samuelsen, violin Baltic Sea Philharmonic Kristjan Järvi, conductor  Recorded by North German Radio, Hamburg (NDR) in the Power Plant of the Museum of History and Technology in Peenemünde on September 22, 2018 Daniel Schnyder   Trumpet concerto, 2nd and 3rd movements performed by: Reinhold Friedrich, trumpet North German Radio Philharmonic Kristjan Järvi, conductor on 03126 / Enja Records ENJ-9460 2