Tens of thousands of marchers answered calls from Germany's main trade unions — the German Trade Union Confederation (DGB), Verdi and IG Metall — to take to the streets on May 1 to demonstrate for increased workers' rights. The unions are demanding the implementation of a Europewide minimum wage as well as improved collective bargaining rights. Organizers also used speeches to implore workers to make their voices heard in upcoming European elections from May 23 to May 26. DGB Chairman Reiner Hoffmann told Germany's dpa news agency that "Europe stands for peace and increased prosperity." Workers in Bangladesh saw through logs to make a living so that they can support their families. A man waves a flag with a portrait of the Argentine revolutionary Che Guevara during a concert to celebrate May Day in Rome's Piazza San Giovanni in 2014. This banner reads, "Throw down the tandem" and depicts Putin as the Madonna holding his "child" (then-President Dmitry Medvedev) during the 2011 May Day rally in Moscow. During Soviet times, May Day celebrated the toils of the proletariat. Under Putin, crowds again gather in cities from the Pacific port of Vladivostok to Moscow for carefully choreographed rallies. Supporters of the Ecuadoran opposition march in commemoration of May Day in Quito in 2015. It's May Day's oldest mantra, this time on display in Bremen in 2009. Banners read: "Work for everybody, with fair wages." Thousands of workers gathered in the capital, Jakarta, to demand better working conditions in 2015. Youngsters attend a concert to celebrate May Day in Rome's Piazza San Giovanni in 2013. Workers take part in the May Day parade organized by the Farabundo Marti National Liberation Front and various worker unions in San Salvador in 2014. People attend the May Day demonstration a few days before the final round of the 2007 presidential elections. "Stop Sarko" the opposition, futilely that year, demanded, referring to then-President Nicolas Sarkozy. An opponent of the Venezuelan government wears a Guy Fawkes mask during the 2014 May Day demonstration in Caracas. Opponents and supporters of the government of Venezuelan President Nicolas Maduro marched in Caracas to commemorate the Workers' Day. Anti-capitalists wear makeshift body armor at the 2002 May Day demonstration in London. There were sporadic clashes with police throughout the day, but the demonstration was mostly peaceful. Activists from different organizations shout slogans and wave flags during the 2011 procession to mark May Day in the capital, Dhaka. May Day is not even a holiday in the United States. Still, demonstrators marched in the 2014 May Day protest in Los Angeles. They were demanding immigration reform and better pay and working conditions. Author: Bruce Konviser Workers of Europe unite Hoffmann said systemic challenges such as digitalization, globalization, migration, and climate change were so massive in scale that nations alone cannot provide solutions: "In the digital era, work isn't national — it's European and global." Speaking to demonstrators in Leipzig, Hoffmann also addressed Germany's stubborn east-west divide as regards the labor market, saying it was unfair that workers in the east had to work more hours for less money than their counterparts in the west. He also railed against disparities in collective bargaining rights, saying, "Collective bargaining agreements must apply everywhere again." Hoffmann underscored the importance of upcoming European elections on a broader level, as well, emphasizing the need to keep right-wing nationalists out of parliament, calling them, "the gravediggers of an open, democratic and unified Europe." Send  Facebook   Twitter   google+   Whatsapp   Tumblr   linkedin   stumble   Digg   reddit   Newsvine Permalink https://p.dw.com/p/3H4Cv Not just for workers anymore Though May Day protests have a long tradition in Germany and around the world — stemming from the 1880s, when workers marched for the eight-hour work day — left-wing groups have also used the date to stage showdowns with police. Authorities in Berlin said some 5,500 officers were deployed around the city to quell any protests that got out of hand. Barbara Slowik, president of the Berlin police force, took to Twitter early on Wednesday to "wish all those who are in our capital to express their opinion on a peaceful May Day." Slowik said that some 2,000 officers were stationed in the Friedrichshain neighborhood, where the annual May Day demonstration took place in the evening. Although such protests have given rise to violent clashes between protesters and police in the past, last year's were relatively peaceful. Police also say that pre-May Day gatherings on Tuesday evening were quiet in comparison with previous years. Send  Facebook   Twitter   google+   Whatsapp   Tumblr   linkedin   stumble   Digg   reddit   Newsvine Permalink https://p.dw.com/p/37MYN js/jm (AFP, dpa) Each evening at 1830 UTC, DW's editors send out a selection of the day's hard news and quality feature journalism. You can sign up to receive it directly here.