The remains of German anti-Nazi resistance fighters, kept by a controversial gynecologist and anatomist during the Nazi era, were buried following a short ceremony at the Charite hospital in Berlin on Monday. The date of Monday's ceremony was chosen as the anniversary of the execution of 13 members of the Red Orchestra resistance movement in Plötzensee, including Erika Gräfin von Brockdorff, whose daughter Saskia was at Monday's service. Hermann Stieve, director of the Berlin Anatomical Institute from 1935 until his death in 1952, used the corpses of several hundred executed resistance fighters, mainly women aged between 20 and 40, to study the human reproductive system. Some of the relatives of those resistance fighters were gathered at the Dorotheenstadt cemetery in Berlin on Monday to watch the small casket containing some 300 microscopic tissue samples be lowered into the ground. The identities of only 30% of the samples were established, and the names have not been released to the public. The burial was preceded by a brief religious service held by a Catholic priest, a Protestant pastor and a rabbi. Read more: As Holocaust survivors grow older, activists keep their stories alive Though never himself a member of the Nazi party, Stieve was able to arrange for the bodies to be transported to his laboratory — sometimes within 15 minutes of their decapitation or hanging at the Plötzensee prison, where 2,800 people were executed between 1933 and 1945. The Nazi regime opened the first concentration camp in Dauchau, not far from Munich. Just a few weeks after Adolf Hitler came to power it was used by the paramilitary SS "Schutzstaffel" to imprison, torture and kill political opponents to the regime. Dachau also served as a prototype and model for the other Nazi camps that followed. The villa on Berlin's Wannsee lake was pivotal in planning the Holocaust. Fifteen members of the Nazi government and the SS Schutzstaffel met here on January 20, 1942 to plan what became known as the "Final Solution," the deportation and extermination of all Jews in German-occupied territory. In 1992, the villa where the Wannsee Conference was held was turned into a memorial and museum. The Bergen-Belsen concentration camp in Lower Saxony was initially established as a prisoner of war camp before becoming a concentration camp. Prisoners too sick to work were brought here from other concentration camps, so many also died of disease. One of the 50,000 killed here was Anne Frank, a Jewish girl who gained international fame posthumously after her diary was published. Buchenwald near the Thuringian town of Weimar was one of the largest concentration camps in Germany. From 1937 to April 1945, the National Socialists deported about 270,000 people from all over Europe here and murdered 64,000 of them. Nuremberg hosted the biggest Nazi party propaganda rallies from 1933 until the start of the Second World War. The annual Nazi party congress as well as rallies with as many as 200,000 participants took place on the 11-km² (4.25 square miles) area. Today, the unfinished Congress Hall building serves as a documentation center and a museum. The Bendlerblock building in Berlin was the headquarters of a military resistance group. On July 20, 1944, a group of Wehrmacht officers around Colonel Claus von Stauffenberg carried out an assassination attempt on Adolf Hitler that failed. The leaders of the conspiracy were summarily shot the same night in the courtyard of the Bendlerblock, which is today the German Resistance Memorial Center. From 1941 people with physical and mental disabilities were killed at a psychiatric hospital in Hadamar in Hesse. Declared "undesirables" by the Nazis, some 15,000 people were murdered here by asphyxiation with carbon monoxide or by being injected with lethal drug overdoses. Across Germany some 70,000 were killed as part of the Nazi euthanasia program. Today Hadamar is a memorial to those victims. Located next to the Brandenburg Gate, Berlin's Memorial to the Murdered Jews of Europe was inaugurated sixty years after the end of World War II on May 10, 2005, and opened to the public two days later. Architect Peter Eisenman created a field with 2,711 concrete slabs. An attached underground "Place of Information" holds the names of all known Jewish Holocaust victims. Not too far from the Memorial to the Murdered Jews of Europe, another concrete memorial honors the thousands of homosexuals persecuted by the Nazis between 1933 and 1945. The four-meter high monument, which has a window showing alternately a film of two men or two women kissing, was inaugurated in Berlin's Tiergarten on May 27, 2008. Opposite the Reichstag parliament building in Berlin, a park inaugurated in 2012 serves as a memorial to the 500,000 Sinti and Roma people killed by the Nazi regime. Around a memorial pool the poem "Auschwitz" by Roma poet Santino Spinelli is written in English, Germany and Romani: "gaunt face, dead eyes, cold lips, quiet, a broken heart, out of breath, without words, no tears." In the 1990s, the artist Gunther Demnig began a project to confront Germany's Nazi past. Brass-covered concrete cubes placed in front of the former houses of Nazi victims, provide details about the people and their date of deportation and death, if known. More than 45,000 "Stolpersteine" have been laid in 18 countries in Europe - it's the world's largest decentralized Holocaust memorial. Right next to the "Führerbau" where Adolf Hitler had his office, was the headquarters of the Nazi Party in Germany, in the "Brown House" in Munich. A white cube now occupies its former location. A new "Documentation Center for the History of National Socialism" opened on April 30, 2015, 70 years after the liberation from the Nazi regime, uncovering further dark chapters of history. Author: Max Zander, Ille Simon No graves Stieve's descendants discovered 300 preserved tissue samples of these remains in 2016, which led to a study by the Institute for Anatomy at Brandenburg Medical School and the Charite hospital on the samples, all measuring around one square centimeter and a hundredth of a millimeter thin. "We are also working on the assumption that the unidentified samples came from the murders in Plötzensee, because they were almost all from people who died as young women," Karl Max Einhäupl, head of the Charite university clinic, told DW at the event. Read more: New Berlin Stolpersteine honor victims of Nazi Germany In his address during the memorial service, Einhäupl described Stieve as an "accomplice" to the Nazi crimes who had helped dispose of the bodies of resistance fighters. The hospital director said Stieve was certainly aware of who his samples had come from, and how they had died. The rest of their bodies were cremated, with more than 80 urns containing their ashes found at the institute seven years after the end of the war. Many resistance fighters were never given graves, over worries the graves could become martyrs' cemeteries. The victims' remains were buried in a small casket at the Dorotheenstadt cemetery Ethical blind spot Historical records show Stieve was particularly interested in the effect of stress on sex glands and the menstrual cycle, and saw the use of capital punishment as a research opportunity. In a letter to the Science Ministry in 1938, Stieve wrote that the executions provided his institute with a "material that no other institute in the world possesses. I have a duty to work on, isolate and preserve this material." According to a statement by the Charite hospital, Stieve's assistant, Charlotte Pommer, refused to take part in these dissections and left the institute. Pommer, who died in 2004, was honored at a symposium on Stieve's work at the Charite hospital last week. Read more: Holocaust literature: Beyond the labels of victim and perpetrator But Stieve's work during the Nazi era drew little concern in postwar Germany. His work was praised in an obituary in Neues Deutschland, the state-run newspaper of East Germany, which wrote: "Great were his deeds. In his work he will live on." In 2013 the Charite hospital began to investigate the extent of its cooperation with the Third Reich. "We didn't want to just erect a memorial, there are a lot of memorials in Berlin that deal with this issue," said Einhäupl. "Because for the young doctors we wanted to start a process that would explain how doctors could be brought to take part in such crimes." Send  Facebook   Twitter   google+   Whatsapp   Tumblr   linkedin   stumble   Digg   reddit   Newsvine Permalink https://p.dw.com/p/38dHC Every day, DW's editors send out a selection of the day's hard news and quality feature journalism. Sign up for the newsletter here.