As the global world becomes more complex, the tyranny of specialized knowledge gets ever harder to support. Take the EU. Few Europeans are able to figure out the subtle ways of its machinery, the interplay of the national and the political, of lobbying and affinities. Confusion and anger gave rise to the whimsical figure of the Brussels bureaucrat — obsessed with curvy cucumbers. Accountable to noone, they complicate things, twist the law, invent complex language to fool the honest citizen. The solution offered by populists is always the simplest: get rid of those parsitic intermediaries. [Italian Interior Minister] Matteo Salvini's "Europe of common sense" seems to be a promise to make the complexities of modern life digestible for everyone. Send  Facebook   Twitter   google+   Whatsapp   Tumblr   linkedin   stumble   Digg   reddit   Newsvine Permalink https://p.dw.com/p/3FLRi Of course, democractically-elected politicians are supposed to be regular people like us: it's only after assuming office that they are supposed to employ specialists to assist them. But fine line between politics and expertise seems blurred. Modern-day "elites" go to the same schools, talk the same language, have the same privileged way of life. Fifty years ago there was a much greater social mix in national parliaments: Today, it seems 100% of lawmakers have degrees from prestigious univeristies. Just like leading experts. Over time, both have come to be seen as belonging to the same snobbish set. On the opposite side, the common man and the populist politician form a united front: both are sincere, warm, authentic. Read more: No new dawn for far right in European election Beyond regulation The ascent of the amateur started with social media. The digital revolution made it possible for everyday users to comment, blog, rate, forward, upload videos. Web 2.0 technology allowed interaction with professional journalism; unexpectedly, it evolved into an entire new capacity for the user to produce content, with no gatekeepers to control or verify it. Trust shifted from institutional media to social networks, where your "friend" appears side by side with established news outlets. Weren't we inspired by whistle-blowers, who managed to circumvent censorship in China or Egypt? It turned out that their destructive activity does not stop at the borders of dictatorships. Thus, we found ourselves in a world where Hungarians believe that Soros is flooding their country with migrants, Bulgarians that "gender" is a demon that will alter the sex of their children, and the French burn cars in protest against Macron's plan to sell Alsace to the Germans. Read more: Transparency International: 'Crisis of democracy' and corruption go hand in hand Marine Le Pen has led France's far-right populist National Rally party, formerly known as the National Front, since 2011. Le Pen has tried to soften her party's far-right image, going as far as to expel her own father — the party's founder — from the party after he referred to Nazi gas chambers as "a point of detail of the history of World War II." Frauke Petry's anti-Muslim and anti-immigrant policies helped the far-right Alternative for Germany (AfD) enter the German parliament in 2017. She quit as leader of the AfD in September, 2017, due to what she said were extremist statements by other party leaders preventing "constructive opposition." She now sits as an independent in both the national and regional Saxony parliament in Germany. Alice Weidel has been co-chair of the AfD since October, 2017 following Petry's departure. A 2013 email revealed Weidel describing Germany as being "overrun by culturally foreign people such as Arabs, Sinti and Roma." The email also described the government as "pigs" who were "puppets of WWII allies." Weidel's party opposes same-sex marriage, but she in a same-sex partnership herself. Beata Szydlo is the Deputy Prime Minister of Poland and vice chairman of the right-wing populist Law and Justice party (PiS) that holds the majority in the parliament. The party is strongly against EU migrant quotas and in 2017, then-Prime Minister Szydlo came under fire for seemingly using an appearance at former Auschwitz-Birkenau Nazi German death camp to highlight her anti-migrant policies. Siv Jensen leads Norway's Progress party, which is a part of the center-right government coalition. She promotes individual rights and freedoms, and has listed former British Conservative Party Prime Minister Margaret Thatcher among her political heroes. Jensen is an outspoken supporter of Israel, and has called to move the Norwegian embassy from Tel Aviv to Jerusalem. Co-founder and leader of the national conservative Brothers of Italy party, Giorgia Meloni has a long history in far-right politics. She joined the Youth Front, the youth-wing of the neo-fascist Italian Social Movement, at age 15. From May 2008 to November 2011 Meloni was minister of youth under Silvio Berlusconi. Her party is currently in the center-right coalition that's in power in Italy. Pia Kjaersgaard is co-founder of the far-right Danish People's Party, which she led from 1995 to 2012. She is known for her strong anti-multiculturalism and immigration views. Her main interests are stemming immigration into Denmark and care for the elderly. In 2003, she lost a libel suit in the Danish Supreme Court against anti-EU activist Karen Sunds who had said Kjaersgaard's views were racist. Author: Louisa Wright 'Karaoke culture' The revolt against experts (Steven Hawking) goes way beyond journalism. Amateur investigators armed with the apps analysed the flames in the Twin Towers to prove that the US government had laid explosives before the World Trade Center collapsed. Others study African demography or read excerpts of medical articles to propagate the nefarious effect of vaccines. In the Balkans, a favourite past-time is contradicting professional historians, who intentionally neglect some obscure fact (always available online) that proves the glory of the nation. Dubravka Ugresic called it "karaoke-culture." Drunken revelers who sing out of tune, accompained by recorded music to have their 15-minutes fame. But contemporary karaoke is not as spontaneous as it seems. It is the populist politicans that determine what music is played. Their aim is to set the (digital) masses against the loathsome elites. Intellectuals will hopefully not be sent to concentration camps, as they were under some communist regimes; they will simply become obsolete, an obstacle for the revolutionary common sense, uniting the leader and his followers. Flexible positions "The people of this country have had enough of experts," leading Brexiter Michael Gove once famously said. [US President Donald] Trump, [Hungarian Prime Minister Viktor] Orban, and [Turkish President Recep Tayyip] Erdogan invariably attack the professional press. They detest the irksome judiciary.Why not simply bypass counselors, boards, independent agencies or NGOs? With his compulsive tweeting, the arch-populist Trump communicates directly with the soul of the nation. Reversing ideological positions is usually criticised by experts. But it creates emotional links with the common person, as consistency is not necessarily present in everyday life. Some people may recall that Italy's League used to be a secessionist party, and that its erstwhile leader Umberto Bossi said the Italian flag made him sick. That Le Pen wanted to leave the Euro and NATO. New populists reach for people's hearts using vulgar language, naive simplifications, and rude humor. What strikes me in the Ibiza videos, where former Austrian Vice Chancellor Strache appeared ready to sell out his country, is the gross, negligent way he is about to do it. The Bulgarian far-right politician Volen Siderov described his freshly-elected rival Angel Djambazki as a "faggot." His audience seemed amused. Instead of trying to counter the new revolt of the masses, populists tend to take its lead. They intensify the class resentment against meritocratic elites, who oppose local pride and sovereignty with their universalist principles of knowlege and justice. Rabble-rousers know that once they get rid of the experts, there will be much less control over their shady activities. Yes, citizens could still hold them in check, but alas, they seem too preoccupied with the karaoke. Send  Facebook   Twitter   google+   Whatsapp   Tumblr   linkedin   stumble   Digg   reddit   Newsvine Permalink https://p.dw.com/p/3IkW7 Ivaylo Ditchev is a professor of cultural anthropology at Sofia University. Every evening at 1830 UTC, DW's editors send out a selection of the day's hard news and quality feature journalism. You can sign up to receive it directly here.