US President Donald Trump on Saturday urged Japanese business leaders to bolster investments in the United States at the start of a four-day state visit to Japan. Trump is hoping to pressure Japan into signing onto a new bilateral deal to reduce a trade imbalance between the two allies. "Japan has had a substantial edge for many, many years, but that's OK, maybe that's why you like us so much," Trump said. "With this deal we hope to address the trade imbalance, removing barriers to United States exports and ensure fairness and reciprocity in our relationship." The visit is touted as a renewed sign of warm relations between Tokyo and Washington, with Trump saying their bond "has never been stronger, has never been more powerful, has never been closer." Read more: Japan: Shinzo Abe's calculated pampering of President Trump Japanese workers rolled out a red carpet for Trump before his arrival at Tokyo's Haneda International Airport. Trade, North Korea — and golf Trump is scheduled to discuss trade and North Korea's nuclear program with Japanese Prime Minister Shinzo Abe. However, trade talks are likely to be fraught with simmering tensions, as Washington considers tariffs on Japanese auto exports, which the Trump administration views as a potential national security threat. Japan has a $70 billion (€62.5 billion) trade surplus with the US, which has been a source of some contention. However, it is minor compared with China's $379 billion surplus, which is at the root of a trade war between Washington and Beijing. The four-day trip will also see Trump take in a sumo wrestling event, enjoy fine dining in the Roppongi district of Japan's capital, meet with families of North Korean abductees and enjoy a round of golf with the Japanese prime minister. Read more: Trump vs. Huawei, and the end of the smartphone? The first round of tariffs in 2018 were on all imported washing machines and solar panels — not just those from China. A study by economists from the Federal Reserve Bank of New York, Columbia University, and Princeton University found that the burden of Trump's tariffs — including taxes on steel, aluminum, solar panels falls entirely on US consumers and businesses who buy imported products. On Friday May 10, 2019 President Donald Trump imposed sanctions on $200 billion (€178 billion) worth of Chinese goods. The move rasied tariffs from 10% to 25% on a range of consumer products, including cell phone, computers and toys. China's Commerce Ministry said it "deeply regrets" the US decision. In April 2019, the United States said it wanted to put tariffs on $11.2 billion worth of goods from the EU. The list includes helicopters and aircraft from Airbus as well as European exports like: famous cheeses like Stilton, Roquefort and Gouda, wines and oysters, ceramics, knives and pajamas. The EU imposed import duties of 25% on a $2.8 billion range of imports from the United States in retaliation for US tariffs on European steel and aluminum. Targeted US products include Harley-Davidson motorcycles, bourbon, peanuts, blue jeans, steel and aluminum. May 17, 2019 is the deadline for President Trump to decide on imposing tariffs on vehicle imports from the EU. According to diplomats, Germany, whose exports of cars and parts to the United States are more than half the EU total, wants to press ahead with talks to ward off tariffs on automakers Volkswagen, Mercedes and BMW. India, the world's biggest buyer of US almonds, on June 21, 2018 raised import duties on the nuts by 20% and increased tariffs on a range of other farm products and US iron and steel, in retaliation for US tariffs on Indian steel. Trump said last month that he would end preferential trade treatment for India, which would result in US tariffs on up to $5.6 billion of imports from India. Mexico on June 5, 2018 imposed tariffs of up to 25% on American steel, pork, cheese, apples, potatoes and bourbon, in retaliation for US tariffs on Mexican metals. While to the north, Canada on July 1 imposed tariffs on $12.6 billion worth of U.S. goods, including steel, aluminum, coffee, ketchup and bourbon whiskey in retaliation for US tariffs on Canadian steel and aluminum. Imperial pomp Trump is also scheduled to meet with Japan's new Emperor Naruhito, who ascended the throne at the beginning of the month following the abdication of his father, Akihito. Naruhito is to welcome Trump to the Imperial Palace on Monday and share a banquet in his honor. "I'm the guest of honor at the biggest event that they've had in over 200 years," Trump said on the eve of his departure. The scheduled encounter has raised some controversy in Japan, with protests taking place ahead of the US president's visit. Each evening, DW's editors send out a selection of the day's hard news and quality feature journalism. You can sign up to receive it directly here. Some Japanese find Trump's meeting with the emperor distasteful. jsi,ls/tj (AP, AFP, Reuters)