A teenager who cracked an egg over the head of an Australian far-right politician said on Tuesday that he would donate some $69,000 (€62,000) to the victims of the Christchurch mosque shooting, in which 51 worshippers were killed by an Australian alleged white supremacist. The money came from an online crowdfunding campaign from members of the public to cover his legal fees and to help him "buy more eggs." Connolly, popularly known as "Egg Boy," made headlines in March when he cracked an egg over the head of Senator Fraser Anning at a rally in the city of Melbourne, after the Anning had linked the Christchurch attacks to growing Muslim immigration Anning was condemned for his comments and censured by the Australian parliament for his "inflammatory and divisive comments." He ultimately lost his seat in this month's federal elections. Not 'mine to keep' "Finally!!! After a huge amount of red tape, $99,922.36 has today been transferred to the Christchurch Foundation and Victims Support," Connolly said. The teenager said he did not end up paying any legal fees as he was represented pro bono. "It wasn't mine to keep," he wrote on Instagram, adding that he hoped the money would bring "some relief" to the victims. "To the victims of the Tragedy, I wholeheartedly hope that this can bring some relief to you. Keep spreading the love," Connolly wrote. After the incident, Connolly acknowledged that the egg attack "wasn't the right thing to do" and he received an official caution by police, but faced no charges. jcg/msh (AFP, AP) After the terror attacks on two mosques in New Zealand in March 2019, far-right politician Fraser Anning blamed them on "Muslim immigration." His words spurred outrage — and action from one 17-year-old, who smashed a raw egg on the back of Anning's head. The boy was arrested and released without charge. But it may not be the end, as online donations were made to help the teen buy "more eggs." In 2008, US President George W. Bush visited Iraq, where he gave a news conference alongside then-Prime Minister Nouri al-Maliki. A journalist, angry at the US intervention in Iraq, hurled first one shoe, then the other at the president, shouting, "This is a farewell kiss from the Iraqi people, you dog." Bush managed to dodge them both and later told the press that the shoe-hurler wore a size 10. Venezuela's acting president may not have a thing for mangoes, but his supporters seem to: Nicolas Maduro has been pelted more than once with mangoes with messages written on them. In 2015, a woman scribbled a note on the fruit, asking the president to call her and giving her name and number. She hurled it at his bus as he went by — and he later called her, granting her wish for a new apartment. In 2009, Italian Prime Minister Silvio Berlusconi was meeting and greeting public when a man with a history of mental illness hurled a souvenir statue of Milan's cathedral in his face. The man later said he had no political affiliation and apologized. Berlusconi was hospitalized and treated for a broken nose and two cracked teeth. He left the hospital after four days with bandages on his face. Dessert does not discriminate, and politicians of all stripes around the world have received pies or cakes in their faces, including German politicians. In May 2016, Left parliamentary leader Sahra Wagenknecht received a face full of cake during an event. The activist behind the cake said he was a member of an "anti-fascist initiative, 'Cakes for misanthropes.'" The cake appeared to be chocolate. German politician Joschka Fischer was serving as foreign minister in 1999 when he attended a gathering of his Green party in May in Bielefeld, North Rhine-Westphalia. A protester, upset at Fischer's support for the NATO bombing campaign in Kosovo, threw a bag of red paint at the politician's head, covering him in the color and damaging his eardrum. Author: Cristina Burack Each evening at 1830 UTC, DW's editors send out a selection of the day's hard news and quality feature journalism. You can sign up to receive it directly here.