Mukesh Ambani, who Forbes magazine ranked the world's 13th richest man in 2019, purchased Hamleys toy store from its Chinese owners C. Banner on Thursday. Ambani's company Reliance Brands announced: "The worldwide acquisition of the iconic Hamleys brand places Reliance into the frontline of global retail." Read more: Indian investment in Africa soars It has been reported that Reliance acquired the 259-year-old brand from the Hong Kong-listed conglomerate C. Banner for $88 million (€78 million). The price is significantly less than the $130 million that C.Banner paid when it acquired Hamleys from France's Groupe Ludendo in 2015. From oil to luxury goods Since making his fortune with Reliance Industries, an oil and gas giant, Ambani has broadly expanded his business portfolio, branching into telecommunications, cable television, technologies, and retail. Read more: Indian billionaire wedding celebrations wrap up with Beyonce, Clintons Reliance Brands Limited also acquired Genesis Luxury Fashion in 2018, thus gaining control of major global brands such as Burberry, Hugo Boss, Michael Kors, and Paul Smith on the Indian market. Battle of the retail titans According to Forbes, Ambani has a net worth of $50 billion. Reliant Industries has a market value of $93 billion. Ambani, who is in a fierce battle for domination of the Indian market with Amazon and Walmart, hopes that the retail segment will contribute as much to his bottom line as his core businesses by 2028. World's oldest toy store Hamleys, which was founded by William Hamley in 1760, is the world's oldest toy store. Famous for its flagship store on London's Regent Street — which attracts some five million visitors each year — Hamleys has expanded its global footprint since the mid-2000s. Ambani had previously licensed all 88 Hamleys stores in India, but with Thursday's purchase he now owns all of the company's 167 stores in 18 countries around the world. Send  Facebook   Twitter   google+   Whatsapp   Tumblr   linkedin   stumble   Digg   reddit   Newsvine Permalink https://p.dw.com/p/1K5SO Each evening at 1830 UTC, DW's editors send out a selection of the day's hard news and quality feature journalism. You can sign up to receive it directly here.