A charter plane traveling from Cuba to the US state of Florida overshot a runway at a Jacksonville military base and skidded into a river, officials said. The Jacksonville sheriff's office tweeted that all 143 people on board were "alive and accounted for." Twenty-one people were injured and taken to hospital in a stable condition. The mayor of Jacksonville, Lenny Curry, said on Twitter that US President Donald Trump had called him to offer help. "No fatalities reported. We are all in this together," Curry said. The Boeing 737-800 ended up in shallow water in the St. John's River at Naval Air Station Jacksonville after attempting to land there during a thunder storm on Friday night. Read more: Boeing slashes 737 MAX output after deadly crashes The plane crashed into the river during a violent storm in Florida "As we went down ... the plane bounced and screeched and bounced more and lifted to the right and then it lifted to the left," one of the passengers, Cheryl Bormann, told CNN. "And then it sort of swerved and then it came to a complete crash stop." Capt. Michael Connor, the commanding officer of NAS Jacksonville, said the plane had been carrying a mix of civilian and military personnel from the Naval Station Guantanamo Bay in Cuba. "I think it is a miracle," Connor said. "We could be talking about a different story this evening ... it very well could be worse." He said crews began working to contain any jet fuel leaks after ferrying passengers safely to shore. Read more: Boeing reveals further software problem in 737 MAX airplane Boeing said in a statement it was providing technical assistance to the US National Transportation Safety Board as the agency conducts its investigation. Officials did not immediately say what caused the plane to overshoot the runway. Aeromexico flight 2431 was departing from Durango, Mexico on July 31, 2018 when it crashed. The plane, a Brazilian Embraer 190 was carrying more than 100 people. While there were injuries, everyone survived the crash. When a flock of birds knocked out both engines of a US Airways jet on January 15, 2009, Captain Sully Sullenberger managed to put the plane down in the ice-cold waters of the Hudson River off Manhattan Island in New York. Everyone was saved and his heroism was celebrated in the movie Sully: Miracle on the Hudson, starring Tom Hanks. On August 2, 2005, an Air France Airbus A340 with 297 passengers and 12 crew members crashed as it was landing at Toronto's Pearson International Aiport in Canada during a heavy rainstorm. Twelve people sustained serious injuries. Even though two slides failed, the crew managed to evacuate everyone from the airport. On December 20, 2008, a Contiental Airlines Boeing 737 was attempting to take off from Denver International Airport. Crosswinds that gusted higher than expected, caused the plane to veer off the runway and crash into a ravine. Luckily, everyone walked away. The Boeing 377 Stratocruiser flying between Honolulu and San Francisco on October 16, 1956 had to make an emergency water landing when two of its engines failed. There were 24 passengers and 7 crew. The captain successfully landed the airplane in the water and everyone survived. Author: Andy Valvur nm/rc (AP, Reuters, dpa) Every evening, DW sends out a selection of the day's news and features. Sign up here.