Extinction Rebellion condemned a police ban on its activities in the UK capital, after being forced to relinquish the focal point of its protests in London. London's Metropolitan Police on Monday changed the conditions of an order previously imposed on protests in the city.  "Any assembly linked to the Extinction Rebellion 'Autumn Uprising' must now cease their protest(s) within London," said the new wording of the order. Police said the ban was necessary due to "ongoing serious disruption to the community." Read more: 'Extinction Rebellion' ups the ante in protests against climate change However, protest action continued in the UK capital on Tuesday, with one protester supergluing herself to the entrance of the UK Department of Transport. The group officially left its main protest site at Trafalgar Square on Monday evening after police said they would arrest anyone who did not leave. Several arrests were made, including Green party member of the European Parliament (MEP), Ellie Chowns. By Tuesday, the square was fully cleared and occupied by police. In a tweet, Extinction Rebellion said "an unprecedented, political, decision has been taken to shut down peaceful protest calling out the government for inaction in the face of crisis." However, police made no immediate move to shut down another protest camp in the Vauxhall district. 'A moment to pause and remember' Announcing that it would leave the Trafalgar Square site, Extinction Rebellion, which is calling for net-zero emissions by the year 2025, urged the government to act. "The Climate and Ecological Emergency isn't going away and we remain resolute in facing it," it said in a statement. "This is bigger than all of us. To rebels, this is a moment to pause and remember why we are here." Police arrested 217 people in London on Monday. Extinction Rebellion protesters blocked traffic and glued themselves to cars. Sarah Lasenby, an 81-year-old retired social worker among the arrested, told the Associated Press, "It is imperative the government should take serious actions and put pressure on other states and global powers to radically reduce the use of fossil fuels." Protesters in New York City doused the famous statue of the bull near Wall Street with blood and staged a "die-in" in front of the New York Stock Exchange. Police arrested around a dozen demonstrators. More than 100 people were arrested in Amsterdam after blocking a road in front of the Rijksmuseum. The city had banned the activists from protesting there, but demonstrators went ahead with the protest anyway. One poster read, "SORRY that we blocked the road, but this is an emergency." Hundreds of people staged a sit-in on a busy road in Sydney before the police began making arrests. Activist Jane Morton told AFP, "we have tried petitions, lobbying and marches, and now time is running out." Australia's conservative government has been reluctant to improve environmental policy, choosing instead to support the continued exporting of coal. With a march through Dublin, Extinction Rebellion demonstrators in Ireland kicked off a "week of action" calling for a greater response to climate change. Protesters held a mock funeral for the planet and parked a pink yacht in front of Irish Prime Minister Leo Varadkar's office. Around 1,000 protesters in Berlin blocked the Grosser Stern, a roundabout in the middle of the German capital. 300 more blocked a central square with couches, tables, chairs, and flower pots. In total, over 3,000 people joined demonstrations in Berlin. The protests come as the German government is on the brink of passing a climate bill that many have criticized for being too weak. In central Paris, around 1,000 protesters blocked the area around Chatalet. Some chained themselves to barrels while others swore to stay there overnight in makeshift tents. Protesters waved banners with slogans like "Burn capitalism, not petrol." Author: Kristie Pladson Before the ban, Extinction Rebellion protests had targeted the financial district of London, with a protest outside the asset management giant BlackRock, as well as the Bank of England, Bank of China and Barclays. Read more: Extinction Rebellion blocks Berlin traffic in worldwide day of protests Police say 1,457 Extinction Rebellion activists have been arrested in London over the past week. The group says similar number have been detained at protests in some 20 cities around the world. Events have taken place in countries that include Germany, the Netherlands, Australia, Canada, and New Zealand.