Bayer Leverkusen's Nadiem Amiri has received his first call-up to Germany's first team squad ahead of Wednesday's friendly against Argentina and the Euro 2020 qualifier in Estonia four days later. A dream come true for the 22-year-old midfielder. Asked about whether he would consider representing Afghanistan, where his parents are from, Amiri recently said that his focus is solely on Germany. "My dream is to represent the [German] national team, absolutely. I always do my best in the hope that one day coach Joachim Löw will give me a call. But if someday I realize there's absolutely zero chance that'll happen, I'll play for Afghanistan," Amiri told Eurosport last month. Calling Löw himself Now Amiri has been called up for Germany's senior squad, though one thing the Ludwigshaven-born midfielder did not receive is an actual phone call from Joachim Löw. On the contrary, Amiri called Löw. The Germany coach did not have Amiri's number, so had to ask assistant Marcus Sorg to call the 22-year-old midfielder and ask him to ring Löw back. "I gave him a call straight after training,” Amiri said after Leverkusen's Bundesliga draw against RB Leipzig on Saturday. Amiri’s senior call-up comes after representing Germany at all youth levels. The midfielder also won the under-21 Euros with Germany in 2017 and was a key part of the side that lost to Spain in the final this summer.  Germany coach Joachim Löw asked Amiri to call him back. ‘A justified call-up’ A tricky midfielder who isn't afraid to dribble and take risks, Amiri’s ability to find spaces in attack and use them creatively makes him a player who could provide a distinct set of skills for Löw as he continues to re-build the German national team. After recovering from a foot fracture in the first half of last season, those traits saw the 22-year-old score three goals and assist two more in the run-in as Hoffenheim ultimately finished ninth, enough to earn him a €9m ($9.9m) move to Bayer Leverkusen. "He has earned the call-up long ago,” said Leverkusen coach Peter Bosz, who hasn't hesitated in making Amiri a central part of his plans. The midfielder has started the last four games for the Werkself, repaying Bosz’s trust with two assists in the recent win over Augsburg. Afghan football fans react Amiri's call-up to the national team has not gone unnoticed in his parents' country of origin, Afghanistan, where reactions from football fans in the country have been largely positive. "We have an international football player, but he plays for a different country," said one Twitter user, not alone in wishing Amiri all the best with Germany. But there have also been more critical voices. "We are waiting for you. Germany has many footballers and they're all superstars, but for us he's needed,” one Twitter user lamented. But Amiri's decision to represent Germany looks to be final as he seeks to make the most of the chance given to him, maybe even against Argentina in Dortmund on Wednesday. "It’s what I’ve always dreamed of," Amiri said.  Late drama at both ends but these two had to settle for a point. Davy Klaasen started the scoring with this first half effort before Sebastian Rode's spectacular volley opened his Frankfurt account on 55 minutes. With just two minutes remaining, Andre Silva slammed home a rebound to give the Eagles the lead but Klaasen won his side an injury time penalty, converted by Milot Rashica. A blistering start helped Gladbach climb clear at the top of the Bundesliga table for the first time in 35 years. Denis Zakaria's second minute opener set the tone before Patrick Herrmann scored twice to put the hosts 3-0 up in 13 minutes. Alsanne Plea took advantage of an error from Augsburg keeper Tomas Koubek before Florian Niederlechner pulled one back and Breel Embolo wrapped it up. After earlier being awarded and then denied a penalty by the VAR, Wout Weghorst (front) struck to send Wolfsburg second and maintain their status as the league's only unbeaten side. The towering Dutch striker lashed home his fourth of the season on 69 minutes to settle a drab contest and condemn Union to their fourth consecutive defeat. An injury-time equalizer stopped David Wagner's side from going top. Simon Terrode flicked a header onto his own post in the first half, but eventually Suat Serdar popped up to head Salif Sane's header in at the back post. Guido Burgstaller hit the post late on, but even later on, Jonas Hector headed past Alexander Nübel, who had made four stunning saves beforehand, to level the scores. Hoffenheim's new signing Sargis Adamyan had a day to remember as Bayern lost their first league game of the season. After missing a glorious chance early, the 26-year-old Armenian eventually grabbed a goal that stunned a Bayern team who looked all out of ideas after midweek. Robert Lewandowski grabbed an equalizer, but Adamyan's turn and shot put Hoffenheim back into a lead they never surrendered. Another week, another late equalizer for BVB's opponents. Axel Witsel's brilliant first-time volley from a corner put BVB ahead against the run of play. The hosts did find the goal they deserved - Luca Waldschmidt with a firm low drive. With BVB wobbling, Achraf Hakimi cut in and sent a deflected strike into the far corner. But, with time running out, Manuel Akanji's own goal leveled the scores. Julian Nagelsmann was left dumbfounded as to how his side weren't leading at the break, or didn't win the game. Timo Werner missed a glorious chance, and Cunha hit the bar and spurned a chance of his own as Leverkusen were fortunate to escape. Leverkusen took advantage though, as Kevin Volland scored at the end of a swift attack. Sub Christopher Nkunku equalized brilliantly to secure RB a point. Even without Sandro Schwarz (suspended), Mainz got a huge win in their fight against relegation as the hosts once again failed to turn their brave play in to points. After Ben Zolinski had dragged Paderborn level following Robin Quaison's opener, Daniel Brosinski's penalty put Mainz back in front. In the second half, Jamilu Collins missed a penalty as Paderborn were once again left empty handed. Ante Covic might have had a rough start as head coach of Hertha, but his team are clicking now as they secured their third straight win. Despite going down to a Rouwen Hennings penalty, Hertha quickly responded. Vedad Ibisevic proved his worth again, before Javairo Dilrosun's sweet finish turned the game around. The contest was ended by Vladimir Darida's goal after a tidy second-half breakaway. Author: Jonathan Harding