Xi Jinping touched down in Nepal on Saturday to become the first Chinese president in over 20 years to visit the Himalayan country. He is in Nepal as China seeks to sign agreements on a number of infrastructure projects. Xi arrived for a brief stopover on his way home from India, where he had met Prime Minister Narendra Modi for talks about combating terrorism and rebuilding ties after the Kashmir dispute. Xi Jinping shakes hands with India's PM Narendra Modi during a visit to Arjuna's Penance in Mamallapuram on the outskirts of Chennai. The two held talks over Kashmir and radicalization History of tensions The short visit by the Chinese leader has not been welcomed by everyone in Nepal. A number of Tibetans have been rounded up amid fears of protests. 60 years ago, China ordered troops to crush a revolt in Tibet against Beijing rule, leaving the Dalai Lama, Tibet's spiritual leader, fleeing to India where he still resides. Roughly 20,000 exiled Tibetanslive in Nepal, but under pressure from China, the Nepalese government has taken an increasingly hard-line stance on their activities. Nepal treads cautiously Nepal is somewhat wary of building significant ties with neighboring India and China. India, for example, has extensive influence over Nepal's economy and politics, while China and Nepal share a border covered with high mountain peaks. Read more: Pakistan thanks China for 'support on Kashmir issue' Tanka Prasad Karki, a former Nepalese diplomat, elaborated further on the lack of a presidential visit. "China was waiting for a strong government in Kathmandu, as the last few decades were marked by a Maoist war, frequent changes of government and political instability." Jiang Zemin was the last Chinese president to visit Nepal, back in 1996, and incumbent Xi was met at Kathmandu airport by Nepalese President Bidhya Devi Bhandari and Prime Minister K.P. Sharma Oli. Looking down on Kathmandu from Swayambhu temple, a sacred Buddhist pilgrimage site in the west of the city, — last year and in 1967. Green spaces have been built over, and mountains have disappeared behind a veil of smog. In 2018, Nepal ranked as having the worst air quality of the 180 countries in the global Environmental Performance Index. The Nepalese capital is set in a valley, where air pollution gets trapped between the mountains. Much of it is dust from unpaved, dirt roads. Brick kilns on the outskirts of the city also foul up the air. But the biggest culprit is traffic. The number of vehicles in Kathmandu is rising by 14% each year, three times faster than the population. As the amount of traffic grows, pedestrians face cars whizzing by in terrifying proximity, deafening noise and smog that makes the eyes water and the breath shorter. Pollution takes it toll on residents' health. "My nose is dry, I suffer from headaches and my lungs are not well. So I am using a mask to protect myself from dust," says 63-year-old Narayan Dahal, walking through Kathmandu's busy Kalanki district. After two days wear in Kathmandu, a face mask is grimy from the air. While dust causes discomfort, these masks do little to protect the wearer from the fine particles in smog that go much deeper into the lungs and can cause heart and respiratory diseases, and even cancer. Many in Kathmandu don't bother with masks at all, and for street traders like this young cotton candy seller at one of Kathmandu's busiest crossroads, the fumes are an occupational hazard. Just half a century ago, the Nepalese capital was a town of only a few hundred thousand people. Today, it's a metropolis of 3 million. Without proper planning, urbanization has exploded out of control. The city's main arteries, like Kanti Path, are choked with exhaust fumes. A woman on a break from work holds her throat as she surveys the polluted city from above. Kathmandu is still being rebuilt after a catastrophic earthquake hit Nepal in April 2015, killing 9,000 people. Some hoped new builds would adopt cleaner burning brick kilns, for instance. But for now, pollution remains a big problem. "I used to come to Kathmandu as a kid, and the air was not bad," says 29-year-old Buddhist monk Pasang Thunglu. "But when I came back in 2015, the air was unbreathable. The earthquake made things worse because now construction sites produce lots of dust." Even the deities aren't safe. In a Kathmandu craftsman's showroom, this brass statue of the goddess Tara is wrapped in paper to prevent dust from ruining the painted details of her face. Author: Marco Panzetti (Kathmandu, Nepal) jsi/bk (AP, AFP) Each evening at 1830 UTC, DW's editors send out a selection of the day's hard news and quality feature journalism. You can sign up to receive it directly here.