Mar-Andre ter Stegen: His first international start since before Russia 2018 saw the Barcelona keeper beaten twice, though he could do little with either goal. The first was a brilliant header from Lucas Alario which was out of reach while Lucas Ocampos' equalizer took a deflection. He looked comfortable in possession didn't really get the opportunity to stake his claim to the number 1 spot. 6 Lukas Klostermann: Surged round the outside to set up the goal that broke the deadlock, with a little help from the visitors' defense, and offered a willing outlet all night. Again bombed forward after intercepting to start the move for the second. Defensively sound early on but less assured under the late pressure. 8 Niklas Süle: Got away with a shaky short backpass after 10 minutes but played a key role in Gnabry's goal with a pinpoint crossfield ball. Keen to use his physicality to deal with the occasional threat posed by Lautaro Martinez and Paulo Dybala and looked the most secure of the back four. 7 Robin Koch: Niklas Stark's late withdrawal through illness handed the Freiburg man a short-notice debut. The 23-year-old grew more efficient and adventurous with the ball as the game went on but lost Lucas Alario in the box to open the door for the visitors. 6 Marcel Halstenberg: Was unlucky to see a sensational freekick rattle the bar in the first half and was confident enough to play a spot of first half head tennis with a teammate. But Roberto Pereyra did cause the RB Leipzig fullback a few headaches and he too got the jitters after Argentina's first. 6 Marcel Halstenberg hit the bar in the first half Emre Can: Slotted in to an unfamiliar center back role. Was happy to step forward in to more familiar territory as Germany started to exert dominance and almost scored on the break early in the second half. Allowed Germany to transition quickly between a back three and a back four but his loose freekick almost let Argentina steal a draw even before they did and he turned his back to deflect the second in. 6 Joshua Kimmich: Captained his country for the first time and was booked inside 11 minutes for a late tackle. Still able to drive through the midfield and dictate the tempo with short, smart passes for the first hour. Did struggle to wrestle back control for his side after Alario's goal though. 7 Kai Havertz: Bright, active and inventive early on and the man most able to find space between the lines despite a deeper starting position than many expected. Used that to great effect, timing his run perfectly to put Germany two up with his first international goal. Great in tight positions but his influence waned. 8 Julian Brandt: Hit the keeper tamely when through after 15 minutes and wasted several other decent positions in the first half. Looked rusty after a stuttering start to his career at Borussia Dortmund and was anonymous after the break. 5 Luca Waldschmidt: A quiet night for the second Freiburg debutant. Played largely from the left in a fluid front three and looked slightly off the pace at times, understandably given he'd never played with most of his teammates. Slightly nervy in possession but pressed well and ran intelligently. 6 Serge Gnabry: Often stationed as the furthest and most central forward and looked confident and full of tricks even before he rode a tackle to stroke home the opener after the silkiest of touchs. Then pulled wide to tee up Havertz to double the lead. Irrepressible, uncontrollable and in the form of his life. Faded a little in the second half and was substituted with Estonia in mind. 8 Substitutes Nadiem Amiri and Suat Serdar made their debuts in the second half as Germany were throwing away the lead. While Amiri was quiet, Serdar was robbed of possession for the equalizer. Sebastian Rudy also replaced Havertz, but too late to make an impact. The most controversial omission from Löw's World Cup 2018 squad and the most internationally experienced player on this list, Sané still has plenty to prove. After a frustrating start to his Germany career, he scored his first two goals in November and started to look the part. A key member of a Manchester City squad in the hunt for four trophies, his direct running and pace make him a huge asset. The Bayern Munich right winger offers a similar threat to Sane on the other side of the pitch. An Olympic silver medal winner in 2016, Gnabry scored a hat-trick on his debut against San Marino later that year. But fitness issues and Löw's former faith in the old guard mean he hasn't yet fully established himself. A strong season so far for Bayern means that's liikely to change soon. The third member of an attacking-midfield trident that looks set to line up behind TImo Werner for some time, teenager Havertz has made great strides at the age of 19. The Bayer Leverkusen playmaker has racked up 79 Bundesliga appearances and become a key man for the Werkself. Mesut Özil's international resignation opened a spot for the youngster who has impressed in his displays so far. Havertz's Leverkusen teammate was in Germany's Euro 2016 squad but missed out on Russia. His tally of caps since his debut three years ago speaks to his struggles to break into the side. But the culling of Mats Hummels and Jerome Boateng offers a chance for center backs. At 23, Tah is enjoying one of his best seasons, particularly since the arrival of Peter Bosz. Can he become a regular? Another man looking to take advantage of defensive vacancies. Kehrer can play at center back but may end up as Germany's right back, with Löw keen on Joshua Kimmich in midfield. The 22-year-old left Schalke for Paris Saint-Germain and has become a regular in Thomas Tuchel's side. Quick and strong in the tackle and on the ball, Kehrer's concentration sometimes wanes but the potential is there. A tidy central midfielder with an eye for goal, many thought the Werder Bremen man would make Germany's squad in November after both club and player enjoyed a strong start to the season. Though the early season goals have dried up a little, the 22-year-old has an importance to Bremen which belies his relatively tender years and will hope to make his international debut in the coming week. Another new face hoping to make his full Germany bow after progressing through the youth teams, Stark has enjoyed a strong season at Hertha Berlin. The Nuremberg academy graduate is a smart reader of the game and has become an increasingly influential figure at the capital city club since moving there in 2015. While most comfortable at center back, Stark can also play as a holding midfielder. One of a number of players given the chance to fill the troublesome left-sided defensive slot in recent years, Schulz is a solid performer for Hoffenheim. The Berlin-born 25-year-old is dangerous going forward and probably more of a natrual wingback, which gives him an advantage now that Löw is looking to play three at the back. Scored a deflected winner on his debut against Peru in September. Another potential replacement for Jonas Hector, who seems to have fallen out of favor while in division 2with Cologne, the RB Leipzig left-back made his debut for Germany against England in 2017 but hasn't been seen in a Germany shirt since. At 27, he's a late bloomer, having failed to make the grade at Borussia Dortmund as a youngster, but his strong, direct style may suit Löw's new tactics. Another member of the Germany team that won silver at the Rio Olympics (which did not count as interntional caps) Klostermann is a marauding fullback comfortable bombing forward. A second RB Leipzig man, the right-sided 22-year-old has been an integral part of the Bundesliga's tightest defense this season and is another potential beneficiary of Kimmich's move in to midfield. Author: Matt Pearson