A down-to-earth and jovial giant, Poulsen made his debut for RB Leipzig without the weight of expectation all the way back in 2013. The Dane didn't get his name on the score sheet in a forgettable 1-0 win against Halle in the third tier, but it proved to be the start of a remarkable journey that took him from the lower leagues of German football to the top of the Bundesliga – and the Champions League. For the past six years, Poulsen's progress as a player has mirrored the club's progression, yet few would have given him a chance of reaching such heights when he was taking the first steps on a path to the pinnacle. "I was never the biggest talent," Poulsen said in a recent interview with the German Football League (DFL), which operates the Bundesliga. "I was never the guy of whom everyone said: 'He'll play professionally someday.'" Fast, strong, lack of ball control The 25-year-old proved them wrong though, signing his first professional contract with Lyngby BK of Denmark's second division in 2011. His former coach, Christian Nielsen, remembers their time together fondly. "He was strong and could jump, he was very fast, but he needed to improve his ball control." Former teammate, Uffe Bech, who plays for Greek side Panathinaikos, pulled fewer punches in talking of his longtime friend, saying that "when you watched [Poulsen] at youth level you thought: 'Wow, he's fast and strong.' But he couldn't do a thing with the ball.'" Not as proficient with the ball at his feet, Poulsen's strengths lay elsewhere as another close friend and ex-teammate Christian Norgaard, pointed out. "Physically he's a monster," said the Brentford midfielder. "He has a body like no other and can do things that very few players can do." Incredible mentality Beyond his obvious physical attributes, key to Poulsen's development has been an unerring desire to learn and improve. During his time in charge of the Danish U17 and U19 teams, Thomas Frank was taken aback by the mental fortitude the striker demonstrated at an early age. Poulsen's international career has taken him from Denmark's U17s to the World Cup in Russia "Technically and tactically he still had a lot to learn," Frank explained. "But his mentality and work ethic was simply incredible." As a result Poulsen developed into a "reliable striker who scored goals" in Denmark's youth set-up before springing a surprise that caught many of guard by joining Leipzig in 2013 at the age of 19. "Everyone in Denmark shook their heads," former teammate Uffe Bech recalled, "but Yussuf was sure that he had made the right decision. I know he spoke to Ralf Rangnick, who convinced him of the RB Leipzig project. And today, I think, he's pretty happy about how everything's gone." Difficult start in Leipzig Three years after his arrival, Leipzig had catapulted themselves into Germany's top tier and, for Poulsen, it was the result of hard work and overcoming testing times. "It was a difficult start. I took part in two training sessions and then had games on the Saturday and Sunday. Two days in a row. I couldn't run for a whole week afterwards," Poulsen said with a laugh. He's come a long way since and, with 227 outings to his name in all competitions, he is the player to have made the most appearances since Leipzig's inception in 2009. "This is the club that got me to where I am now. It's the first club I've really been successful with," said Poulsen, who shared a flat with current Bayern and Germany star Joshua Kimmich during his early days in Leipzig. "He helped me a lot in the beginning. I wasn't that good in German." Poulsen shared a flat with Joshua Kimmich (second from right) when he moved to Leipzig However, here too, Poulsen has come a long way, as now he is comfortable giving interviews in his third language. Lasting connection to home Nevertheless, Poulsen remains cognisant of his roots. A member of the Danish national team to feature at the 2018 World Cup squad in Russia, back home he is also known as "Yurary," the name of his football crazy father who died of cancer when Poulsen was just six years old. In Copenhagen Poulsen also runs a café with a couple of friends, and it doesn't seem to matter so much that he doesn't have time to look after the business on a day-to-day basis. "The fans keep bringing him small gifts. You can definitely feel his presence, even if he's not here," said barista Victor Otorio. Still Poulsen hasn't let success go to his head and in the eyes of good friend Bech is "the same cheerful person I've always known and he deserves all of the recognition he gets." Yet even now, with his one of the first names on the teamsheet and Leipzig shaping up as title challengers in the Bundesliga under Julian Nagelsmann, Poulsen's talents remain underrated outside RB circles. Perhaps it's an accepted side effect of partnering German international Timo Werner up front or his unrestrained hustle-and-bustle style, but a lack of recognition has never held the Dane back before. "I love challenges, and every time someone said to me, 'You can't do this,' All I wanted to do was to show them: 'I can do that.'" Vedad Ibisevic came off the bench to bag a brace as Hertha won big against ten-man Cologne. Javairo Dilrosun put Hertha ahead, but the defining moment came just before halftime, when Cologne's Jorge Mere was shown a straight red for a rash challenge. Ibisevic put the game out of reach for the hosts with two goals within five minutes of coming off the bench, and Dedryck Boyata added a late fourth. Luca Waldschmidt scored a fine solo goal as Freiburg's winning run continued, sending them up to third in the table. The hosts took the lead through Rouwen Hennings, but Freiburg leveled on the stroke of halftime through Jonathan Schmidt's close-range finish. The winner came courtesy of Waldschmidt with nine minutes to play, when the young Germany star beat two players and let fly from distance. Dortmund missed the chance to keep the heat on Bayern Munich, succumbing to a draw with Bremen. The visitors took an early lead through Milot Rashica, but that was quickly cancelled out by Mario Götze, who headed in the equalizer on his first start of the season. Marco Reus seemed to put Dortmund on the path to victory before halftime, but Marco Friedl's header ensured a share of the points. The champions went top with a win that was more nervy than it needed to be. Serge Gnabry opened the scoring after a brilliant through ball from Coutinho in the first half before the pair reversed roles after the break. Substitute Kai Pröger crashed home a bouncing ball on 68 minutes before Robert Lewandowski looked to have sealed it. A late Jamilu Collins goal wasn't quite enough for the hosts. Amine Harit scored his fourth of the season from the penalty spot as resurgent Schalke inflicted Leipzig's first loss of the season. Harit's penalty at the end of the first half was sandwiched between a Salif Sane header and a first Bundesliga strike from young Welsh winger Rabbi Matondo. Despite Emil Forsberg's late consolation, David Wagner's Royal Blues have now won four on the bounce. Goals from Alassane Plea, Marcus Thuram and Florian Neuhaus helped the improving Foals to a win over a Hoffenheim side struggling to adjust to the post-Julian Nagelsmann era. Thuram wriggled down the right before finding Plea for the 43rd minute opener before driving in to the area to add the finishing touch to a counterattack. Neuhaus' late effort ensured Gladbach's third consecutive win. An early header from Marcel Tisserand settled the kind of game that showed why blunt Mainz are down at the wrong end of the table. The DR Congo international rose to nod home a ninth minute corner and kept the Wolves unbeaten start to the league season alive. Augsburg's rotten record against Saturday's visitors continued after a late surge from Leverkusen wrapped up the points. Florian Niederlechner turned in to his own net to give Peter Bosz's side a first half lead before Kevin Volland and Kai Havertz both scored in the final quarter of the match to seal the victory. Union's famous win over Borussia Dortmund is fast becoming a distant memory as goals from summer signings Bas Dost and Andre Silva secured the Eagles a Friday night win. A late strike from substitute Anthony Ujah couldn't quite spark the desired comeback and the capital club are looking over their shoulders. Author: Matt Pearson