German Foreign Minister Heiko Maas on Monday said he could imagine a short extension to Brexit on technical grounds — if getting the deal accepted in time proved too difficult. "Should there be problems in Britain with the ratification, I would not rule out that there could be a short, technical extension," he added. Read more: Opinion: Brexit show extended for another season UK Prime Minister Boris Johnson reluctantly sent separate letters late to the European Union on Saturday, after being forced by the UK Parliament to seek an extension to the Brexit process. While one — unsigned — letter did request more time, a separate note sent personally by Johnson argued against any lengthening of the Brexit process. Echoing Maas's comments, Germany's Economy Minister Peter Altmaier also said he could envisage a delay. He said a short-term extension would be desirable if it avoided a no-deal Brexit. Altmaier bemoaned a lack of clarity from the UK about what it wanted. "At the moment the most difficult thing is that we don't know who is actually speaking for this country. Is it the government, or is it the elected Parliament?" Read more: Brexit, the Brits and another 'no' in the House of Commons Fresh Brexit blow Later on Monday, The UK House of Commons speaker, John Bercow, rejected a request by the government to hold a simple 'yes' or 'no' vote on Johnson's Brexit deal. Bercow said the vote was "in substance the same" as one held on Saturday and so breaches Parliament's rules. He said it would be "repetitive and disorderly" to allow a new vote two days later. Meanwhile, European lawmakers have indicated they would not vote on a UK withdrawal deal before MPs in Westminister approve it in full. Send  Facebook   Twitter   google+   Whatsapp   Tumblr   linkedin   stumble   Digg   reddit   Newsvine Permalink https://p.dw.com/p/3Rb0I kw, rc/ng (dpa, Reuters, AFP) Each evening at 1830 UTC, DW's editors send out a selection of the day's hard news and quality feature journalism. You can sign up to receive it directly here.