Local media have reported at least 30 people dead, at least another 16 missing, and more than 170 injured on Sunday after Typhoon Hagibis tore across Japan. The government has put the death toll at 14. The storm — one of the most powerful tropical cyclones to ever hit the country — unleashed heavy rain and winds, paralyzing the capital, Tokyo, and prompting authorities to issue noncompulsory evacuation orders to more than 6 million people. Public broadcaster NHK reported that around 120 people had suffered injuries, while more than a dozen remained unaccounted for. Some 160,000 households were still without power on Sunday afternoon, the broadcaster said. Japanese Prime Minister Shinzo Abe offered condolences to the families of those who died and said the government was working to save lives. "The government will do everything in its power to cooperate with relevant agencies to restore services as soon as possible," Abe said. Read more: Typhoon Faxai wreaks havoc in Tokyo Dangerously heavy rain caused landslides and flooding in some areas Rescue efforts underway Government spokesman Yoshihide Suga said 27,000 troops and other emergency crews had been deployed to rescue those stranded in flood-hit areas. Military helicopters were also involved in search efforts. "The major typhoon has caused immense damage far and wide in eastern Japan," Suga said. A rescue worker searches for survivors in a flooded residential neighborhood At its peak, the typhoon caused widespread chaos in and around Tokyo, forcing the suspension of train services and the cancellation of more than a thousand flights. Wind gusts of up to 216 kilometers per hour (134 miles per hour) lashed parts of the country, while unrelenting rainfall caused several rivers to break their banks. Three Rugby World Cup matches were also canceled, while qualifying at the Japanese Grand Prix at the Suzuka circuit, was postponed. Hagibis, which means "speed" in Filipino, made landfall southwest of Tokyo at around 7 p.m. local time (1000 UTC) on Saturday. It was expected to weaken and move out to sea late Sunday. It comes just weeks after another powerful storm, Typhoon Faxai,  resulted in two deaths and dozens of injuries in the city of Chiba. Japan is battered by approximately 20 typhoons per year, but it is rare for Tokyo to be affected. The Japanese government has said that Hagibis could be the worst storm to hit the capital since 1958, when a typhoon resulted in more than 1,000 deaths and flooded 500,000 homes. Hurricane, typhoon, and cyclone are actually three names for the same phenomenon. Along the North American coast they are called hurricanes, in East and Southeast Asia they are called typhoons, and near India and Australia they are called cyclones. But despite the different names, they develop in the same way. Tropical storms develop over oceans when the water temperature is at least 26 degrees Celsius (79 degrees Fahrenheit). As the warm water evaporates and condenses, the air around it heats up and drags cooler air upwards, creating powerful winds. The Earth's rotation causes the air stream to move around the eye of the storm, which can be up to 50 kilometers wide. This area is nearly completely free of clouds and wind. When a tropical storm hits a coastline, it becomes weaker due to the lack of warm water. In Australia, "Marcia" was soon downgraded to a category one storm, while "Lam" weakened after striking near Brisbane. Masses of water from the sea often cause the worst damage - as seen here in China after Typhoon Nanmadol in August 2011. Hurricane Sandy was one of the strongest hurricanes ever recorded over the Atlantic Ocean. It caused waves of up to 4 meters high, fires, power outages and broken dykes. Sandy arrived with winds at speeds of more than 145 kilometers per hour. Cuba, New York and New Jersey were particularly affected. Tornadoes however, are non-tropical whirlwinds that can occur anywhere a storm is brewing. Local temperature differences force warm air upwards and cold air down, and a column of warm air rotates upwards at an increasing velocity. Tornadoes are usually only a maximum of 1 kilometer in diameter. As the warm air rises, it forms a funnel, the main characteristic of a tornado. Inside the funnel, the speed of the air can be tremendous - up to 500 kilometers per hour. Tornadoes are the fastest whirlwind type of weather phenomenon. A tornado can leave a trail of destruction several kilometers long. In the US Midwest, tornadoes occur several hundred times a year, as dry, cold air from the north hits damp, warm air from the Gulf of Mexico. It's different in other countries - in Germany, for example, tornadoes occasionally occur along the coast. Author: Brigitte Osterath / ew nm/bk (AFP, AP) Every evening, DW's editors send out a selection of the day's hard news and quality feature journalism. You can sign up to receive it directly here.