The election date means that a new Parliament will have less than two months to agree upon and implement a Brexit policy before the UK leaves, unless a further extension is granted. The two main parties, Prime Minister Boris Johnson's Conservatives and Jeremy Corbyn's Labour, have both laid out their Brexit policies. But it is not guaranteed that either party will win enough support to get their plan through Parliament. These are the most likely outcomes of the election — and what they mean for Brexit. Option 1: Conservatives win — UK leaves EU by January 31 The Conservatives currently have no majority following the expulsion and resignation of several Members of Parliament (MPs). Johnson was on the cusp of agreeing his Brexit deal with the EU in October but lacked parliamentary support to ratify the deal. If the Conservatives win an outright majority, then he will probably find it easier to push through the withdrawal deal. This means it is almost certain that Brexit will happen on January 31 — or even earlier as set out in the latest "flexible extension" granted by the EU. Send  Facebook   Twitter   google+   Whatsapp   Tumblr   linkedin   stumble   Digg   reddit   Newsvine Permalink https://p.dw.com/p/3SAf9 Option 2: Labour win — second referendum If Labour, currently the main opposition party, win a majority, then their official policy on Brexit is to hold a second referendum as soon as possible. This referendum would give the British public a "choice between leaving with a sensible deal or remaining in the European Union," according to their website. But UK referendum law requires an estimated 22 weeks to prepare and pass legislation in order for a referendum to take place. The 2016 referendum was agreed by parliament many months before it took place. It seems unlikely that a referendum would be possible before January 31, even if the bill is rushed through parliament. This means another Brexit extension may be required — even though EU Council President Donald Tusk warned that the current delay "may be the last." At the moment, most polls say that it is unlikely that Jeremy Corbyn's Labour party will be able to secure an outright majority. The latest survey from polling agency YouGov puts Labour at around 23% compared to 40% for the Conservatives. Read more: Opinion: Brexit show extended for another season Option 3: Conservative or Labour minority government — Brexit stalemate If neither wins a majority, then it is possible that the Conservatives or Labour will attempt to form a minority government. A minority government means that a party has less than 50% of MPs represented in the House of Commons (currently made up of 650 MPs). This means passing any kind of legislation is difficult and requires support from other parties. In 2017, then-Prime Minister Theresa May formed a minority Conservative government by arranging a confidence-and-supply agreement with the right-wing Northern Irish Democratic Unionist Party (DUP). Send  Facebook   Twitter   google+   Whatsapp   Tumblr   linkedin   stumble   Digg   reddit   Newsvine Permalink https://p.dw.com/p/3SAlB Option 4: Hung Parliament — Brexit stalemate A hung parliament occurs when no one party wins an outright majority. If no party is able to form a minority government or agree to a coalition deal with another party, this scenario could lead to another election within a few months. This would effectively prevent any Brexit legislation being passed before January 31. Option 5: Conservative- or Labour-led coalition government — uncertain outcome The Conservatives have ruled out a coalition with the Brexit Party, their most obvious bedfellow who may steal key Conservative seats in this election. Labour have ruled out a coalition with the Scottish National Party (SNP) or the Liberal Democrats (Lib Dems). But a coalition government is not as far-fetched as it appears. After the 2010 election the Conservatives entered into a coalition with the Lib Dems, and a repeat of such a partnership, while unlikely, has not been completely ruled out by either party. Labour may also go back on their previous statement and cobble together a coalition with the SNP, the Lib Dems, or other smaller parties such as the Greens. Any such constellation would very likely lead to even more uncertainty surrounding Brexit. Each evening at 1830 UTC, DW's editors send out a selection of the day's hard news and quality feature journalism. You can sign up to receive it directly here. After a shrill referendum campaign, nearly 52% of British voters opted to leave the EU on June 23. Polls had shown a close race before the vote with a slight lead for those favoring remaining in the EU. Conservative British Prime Minister David Cameron, who had campaigned for Britain to stay, acknowledged the "will of the British people" and resigned the following morning. Former Home Secretary Theresa May replaced David Cameron as prime minister on July 11 and promised the country that "Brexit means Brexit." May had quietly supported the Remain campaign before the referendum. She did not initially say when her government would trigger Article 50 of the EU treaty to start the two-year talks leading to Britain's formal exit. May eventually signed a diplomatic letter over six months later on March 29, 2017 to trigger Article 50. Hours later, Britain's ambassador to the EU, Tim Barrow, handed the note to European Council President Donald Tusk. Britain's exit was officially set for March 29, 2019. Tusk ended his brief statement on the decision with: "We already miss you. Thank you and goodbye." British Brexit Secretary David Davis and the EU's chief negotiator, Michel Barnier, kicked off talks in Brussels on June 19. The first round ended with Britain reluctantly agreeing to follow the EU's timeline for the rest of the negotiations. The timeline split talks into two phases. The first would settle the terms of Britain's exit, and the second the terms of the EU-UK relationship post-Brexit. The second round of talks in mid-July began with an unflattering photo of a seemingly unprepared British team. It and subsequent rounds ended with little progress on three phase one issues: How much Britain still needed to pay into the EU budget after it leaves, the post-Brexit rights of EU and British citizens and whether Britain could keep an open border between Ireland and Northern Ireland. Leaders of the remaining 27 EU members formally agreed that "sufficient progress" had been made to move on to phase two issues: the post-Brexit transition period and the future UK-EU trading relationship. While Prime Minister Theresa May expressed her delight at the decision, European Council President Tusk ominously warned that the second stage of talks would be "dramatically difficult." British ministers appeared to back a Brexit plan at May's Chequers residence on July 6. The proposal would have kept Britain in a "combined customs territory" with the EU and signed up to a "common rulebook" on all goods. That went too far for British Foreign Minister Boris Johnson and Brexit Secretary David Davis, who resigned a few days later. May replaced them with Jeremy Hunt and Dominic Raab. May's Chequers proposal did not go down well with EU leaders, who told her at a summit in Salzburg in late September that it was unacceptable. EU Council President Tusk trolled May on Instagram, captioning a picture of himself and May looking at cakes with the line: "A piece of cake perhaps? Sorry, no cherries." The gag echoed previous EU accusations of British cherry-picking. EU leaders endorsed a 585-page draft divorce deal and political declaration on post-Brexit ties in late November. The draft had been widely condemned by pro- and anti-Brexit lawmakers in the British Parliament only weeks earlier. Brexit Secretary Dominic Raab resigned along with several other ministers, and dozens of Conservative Party members tried to trigger a no-confidence vote in May. In the face of unrelenting opposition, May postponed a parliamentary vote on the deal on December 10. The next day, she met with German Chancellor Angela Merkel to seek reassurances that would, she hoped, be enough to convince skeptical lawmakers to back the deal. But while she was away, hard-line Conservative lawmakers triggered a no-confidence vote. May won the vote a day later. The UK Parliament voted 432 to 202 against May's Brexit deal on January 16. In response to the result, European Council President Donald Tusk suggested the only solution was for the UK to stay in the EU. Meanwhile, Britain's Labour Party called for a no-confidence vote in the prime minister, her second leadership challenge in as many months. May tried to get legal changes to the deal's so-called Irish backstop in the weeks that followed. She eventually got assurances that the UK could suspend the backstop under certain circumstances. But on March 12, Parliament voted against the revised Brexit deal by 391 to 242. EU leaders warned the vote increased the likelihood of a no-deal Brexit. Two days later, MPs voted to delay Brexit. Following the second defeat of May's divorce deal, the European Council met in Brussels on March 21 to decide what to do next. EU leaders gave May two options: delay Brexit until May 22 if MPs vote for the withdrawal deal or delay it until April 12 if they vote against the deal. If the deal were to fail again in Parliament, May could ask for a long extension. On March 29, the day that the UK was supposed to leave the EU, British lawmakers voted for a third time against May's deal — rejecting it this time with a vote of 344 to 286. Following the latest defeat, May approached the main opposition Labour leader Jeremy Corbyn in an attempt to find a compromise, angering hardline Brexiteers in her own Conservative party. With the April 12 deadline looming after the third defeat of May's deal, EU leaders met again in Brussels to discuss a second delay. The only question was how long should it be? In the end, the UK and EU agreed to a "flexible" extension until October 31 — which can end sooner if the Brexit deal is approved. The UK had to take part in EU elections in May because their exit wasn't secured in time. Weeks of talks between Prime Minister Theresa May and the Labour party to reach a deal proved unsuccessful and further eroded her political capital. She triggered an angry backlash from her party after she tried to put the option of a second referendum on the table. The series of failures led May to announce her resignation, effective June 7, in an emotional address. After Theresa May announced on June 7 that she would leave office, other members of her Conservative party began clamoring for the top job. Within a month, the leadership battle came down to Jeremy Hunt (left), an EU proponent who fears a no-deal scenario, and Boris Johnson (right), one of the main proponents of Brexit. At the end of July 2019, Johnson was officially named Theresa May's successor as British prime minister. "We are going to energize the country, we are going to get Brexit done by October 31," he said after he was elected leader of the Conservative Party. Conservative rebels and opposition MPs backed efforts to delay an October 31 Brexit deadline in fear of a no-deal departure. In response, Johnson called for a general election, saying his government cannot rule without a mandate after he stripped 21 rebel MPs of their Conservative status. The Labour Party said it would not back elections until legislation to block a no-deal Brexit was in place. In late September, Britain's highest court ruled that Johnson's decision to suspend Parliament ahead of the UK's planned exit was unlawful. "This was not a normal prorogation in the run-up to a Queen's Speech," said the Supreme Court. Political rivals immediately called on Johnson to leave his post. Johnson said he would abide by the court ruling, though said he "strongly" disagreed. Author: Alexander Pearson