Meghan, the Duchess of Sussex and her husband Harry announced on Tuesday they have opened legal proceedings against the publisher of the Mail on Sunday for publishing a private letter she wrote to her father. Earlier this year, the tabloid published a handwritten letter Meghan wrote to Thomas Markle, in which she expressed her anguish about their broken relationship and his constant communication with tabloid press. He promptly shared the letter with the Mail on Sunday. The couple engaged the services of libel lawyers Schillings to pursue the paper for "misuse of private information, infringement of copyright and breach of the Data Protection Act 2018," the firm told British outlets. Meghan and Prince Harry have revealed their two-day-old son to the public, with the proud new mother declaring that the baby is "a dream." They eventually revealed the name: Archie Harrison Mountbatten-Windsor. He is the seventh in line to the throne. Prince William and Kate introduced their third child to the world seven hours after his birth on April 23, 2018. While the boy was born on St George's Day, the Duke and Duchess of Cambridge had to find another name for the fifth-in-line to the throne, as George is the name given to his older brother. They picked Louis Arthur Charles, and he will be known as Prince Louis. Kate Middleton, Duchess of Cambridge, gave birth to Prince William's first child on July 22, 2013. Officially called George Alexander Louis, Prince George became a big brother on May 2, 2015. The boy is third in line to succeed his great-grandmother, after his grandfather Charles and his father. George's little sister, Princess Charlotte Elizabeth Diana, was born on May 2, 2015. Her name, which honors both her grandmother and great-grandmother, was announced two days later. This photo shows her at the age of one in 2016. Following changes in the rules of succession privileging male heirs, Princess Charlotte remains fourth in line to the throne, even though she now has a baby brother. These happy chubby cheeks belong to none other than Queen Elizabeth II. She is in the arms of her mother Elizabeth, the Duchess of York. Her father was the future King George VI. Elizabeth II's birth was a difficult one: The heiress to the throne was finally delivered via C-section on April 21, 1926. She grew up with her younger sister Margaret (1930-2002). Today, she is 92 years old. This young boy was born on June 10, 1921. At the time, Philip, Duke of Edinburgh didn't realize that about 25 years later he would be asking the hand of a future queen in marriage: Elizabeth II. Philip's father had already arranged a meeting with the then 13-year-old heiress to the throne in 1939. At the time, Philip was still a student at the Royal Naval College. Today he is 96 years old. Charles Philip Arthur George, better known as Prince Charles, was born on November 14, 1948. When he was four years old, his mother, Elizabeth II, ascended the throne. As the eldest child, Charles is the royal heir and Duke of Cornwall. This baby would later become royal. Lady Di was born on July 1, 1961. In 1981, she married Prince Charles under the eyes of some 750 million television viewers worldwide. The failure of their marriage would be just as publicized. Diana's death in a car accident on the night of August 31, 1997 would be followed by another media frenzy. Her fans still mourn her today. Prince William Arthur Philip Louis Mountbatten-Windsor was born on June 21, 1982 in London. After their parents separated in 1992, William and his brother Harry lived alternately with Princess Diana in London's Kensington Palace or with their father and grandmother Elizabeth II at the Royal Court. Lady Di would certainly have been proud of her now big kids having their own children. His real name is Prince Henry Charles Albert David Mountbatten-Windsor. But the world prefers to simply call him Prince Harry. The sandy-haired baby was born on September 15, 1984. Harry's excessive partying as a teenager would later make tabloid headlines. He managed to get rid of his bad-boy image by marrying Meghan Markle — and now having a child of his own. Author: Ananda Bräunig (eg) Harry evokes memory of mother Harry published a letter on their personal website, justifying the legal action. He said the couple had been unable to stop the constant reports about the strained relations between Meghan and her father, and the publication of this letter presented their sole opportunity to fight back. "This particular legal action hinges on one incident in a long and disturbing pattern of behavior by British tabloid media. The contents of a private letter were published unlawfully in an intentionally destructive manner to manipulate you, the reader, and further the divisive agenda of the media group in question," he wrote. "Put simply, it is bullying, which scares and silences people. We all know this isn't acceptable, at any level. We won't and can't believe in a world where there is no accountability for this. "I’ve seen what happens when someone I love is commoditised to the point that they are no longer treated or seen as a real person. I lost my mother and now I watch my wife falling victim to the same powerful forces." Harry's mother, Princess Diana, was killed in a car crash in 1997 after being followed by paparazzi through the streets of Paris. Schillings told British outlets they had pursued the case after Associated Newspapers, the publisher of the Mail on Sunday, did not reach a satisfactory agreement with them. Great Britain's Prince Harry wed American actor Meghan Markle on May 19, 2018. The couple tied the knot in a formal ceremony at Windsor Castle outside of London that was broadcast around the world. Every detail of the wedding was carefully considered, including the bouquet the bride carried. It consisted of forget-me-nots which had been hand-plucked by Harry in honor of his mother, Princess Diana. Britain's Prince Harry announced his engagement to the US actor Meghan Markle in November. The wedding, announced for May 19, 2018, has been the focus of a media frenzy in the six months since its announcement. In addition to the royal family, 600 A-list guests from both sides of the Atlantic were expected at Windsor Castle for the ceremony. The couple exchanged vows inside St. George's Chapel in a ceremony that diverged slightly from traditional royal nuptials. Meghan Markle was briefly accompanied up the aisle by Harry's father, Prince Charles. The vows did not include the word "obey." And the song to which the newlyweds exited the church was a gospel choir singing a refrain of "Amen." Prince Harry and Meghan Markle will be the 16th royal couple to tie the knot inside Windsor Castle. The tradition began in 1863 with the wedding between the Prince of Wales and Princess Alexandra of Denmark. The second marriage of Harry's father, Prince Charles, to Camilla Parker Bowles, likewise took place in the castle, at Windsor Guildhall, and was followed by a service at St. George's Chapel. Guests were asked to arrive at the chapel more than an hour early. St. George's Chapel can hold up to 800 people, more than enough room to accommodate the couple's guest list, which included no heads of states or politicians in order to avoid controversy. After the ceremony, just 200 of the guests will be on hand at a reception at the nearby Frogmore House. The bridegroom arrived at St. George's Chapel with his brother, Prince William. Both wore traditional military uniforms and made the short trek to the chapel on foot while waving to their adoring public. Harry made the unusual choice to retain a beard, something which may have gone against the dress code in the past. The only member of Meghan Markle's family to have attended the wedding was her mother, Doria Ragland. After overnighting with her only daughter, Doria accompanied Meghan on the drive to the church. The role was a first in a royal wedding, but Meghan sought to include her "rock and best friend" in her big day. In lieu of bridesmaids, Meghan selected ten page boys and flower girls to accompany her down the aisle. Among those children who followed the bride were Prince William's eldest two children: Prince George and Princess Charlotte, who is seen above arriving at the ceremony. Greeted at the chapel by the Archbishop of Canterbury, Meghan Markle wore a dress designed by Clare Waight Keller of Givenchy. Her veil stretched for five meters (16.4 feet) behind her and contained 53 hand-stitched flowers, representing the 53 nations of the Commonwealth. She was followed into the church by ten pageboys and flower girls, including Prince George and Princess Charlotte. After Meghan's father suffered a heart attack earlier in the week, the decision was made upon the bride's suggestion that the groom's father, Prince Charles, accompany her through the Quire to Harry's side. She had no bridesmaids or matron of honor, as she said that choosing one of her many friends for the role would have been too difficult. The happy couple were all smiles when they met the reverend at the altar to exchange vows. The pair agreed to love, honor, comfort and remain faithful to each other, forsaking all others in the hour-long ceremony which included not only recitations from the Bible but also hymns and gospel songs as well as the UK National Anthem. Ring bearer for the ceremony was Prince William, Duke of Cambridge and Prince Harry's best man. The couple chose Cleave and Company to make their wedding rings. The Queen had gifted Meghan a piece of Welsh gold from which her ring was fashioned; Prince Harry's was a textured platinum band. Ahead of the wedding, Markle was baptized into the Church of England. For the ceremony, a number of preachers from the Anglican church provided short sermons, including the Most Rev Bishop Michael Curry, primate of the Episcopal Church, whose congregation is based in Chicago. The reverend quoted Martin Luther King Jr. and told the couple, "There's power in love, don't underestimate it." After the ceremony, the couple appeared before the public for the first time in a horse-drawn carriage. They were led through the streets by members of the Household Cavalry, guardians of the monarch, atop horses. Prince Harry was a part of the cavalry and was with some of the soldiers during his duties in Afghanistan. Author: Courtney Tenz