A golden car was pulled over by police on Sunday as it was "too bright." Police were concerned that the car would dazzle other drivers in the western German city of Düsseldorf. Police intervened after they noticed how brightly the car was reflecting the sun and other lights. Upon inspection, they found problems beyond its color. The SUV had also potentially been tampered with, and a police spokesman mentioned the exhaust and the tail light. Send  Facebook   Twitter   google+   Whatsapp   Tumblr   linkedin   stumble   Digg   reddit   Newsvine Permalink https://p.dw.com/p/3Qy1M The 30-year-old driver was not allowed to keep driving the vehicle, which was secured by police and deemed unsafe for the road. Instead, he had to walk home. A police spokesman said the potentially dangerous "dazzling effect" was why the car had been pulled over. The vehicle will now be considered by a specialist appraiser to see if it is safe to be on the road. Düsseldorf has Germany's third-largest inland port. In the 1990s, part of the Rhine harbor was developed into office buildings. Renowned architects like Frank O. Gehry, David Chipperfield or Jo Coenen created futuristic architecture placed among old, protected warehouses. The so called "Media Harbor" is now a landmark of the city. In Düsseldorf shopping becomes an experience. There is a whole row of department stores that make an impression with their extraordinary or representative architecture. From art deco to modern – all can be found here. Recently this building complex known as the Kö-Bogen was the talk of the town. This was the brainchild of star architect Daniel Libeskind. Art lovers can choose from 26 museums (pictured: Kunstsammlung NRW) and over 100 galleries. Düsseldorf is closely associated with big names of contemporary art and photography like Beuys, Richter, Gursky, Höfer - and many more. Our tip - a good way to discover the talent of tomorrow is to go to the world famous Düsseldorf art academy where once a year the students present their graduation pieces. Düsseldorf, with Cologne and Mainz, is one of three major Rhineland carnival hubs. Every year on November 11th at 11:11 o'clock the new carnival season is declared. At first these celebrations are indoors in form of costume balls and carnival shows. It culminates in street celebrations - for six days from the Thursday before Ash Wednesday the street carnival takes place. Düsseldorf is home to the only Japanese community in Germany, and the third largest in Europe. Once a year this is celebrated. A festival highlight is the gathering of cosplayers from across Europe. Dressed in costumes to look like their idols from manga, anime and comic films they take over the Rhine promenade. Japan Day attracts over a half a million visitors to the city. What would Düsseldorf be without it? The river is the city's lifeline – in every sense. In 1990 with the creation of the Rhine promenade the people of Düsseldorf eventually got their boulevard along the Rhine, which they make good use of all year round. On the opposite shore it is green - for miles there are meadows and embankments. White-water rides, giant boosters and a ferris wheel - the fun fair covering an area of 165,000 square meters in Oberkassel is the biggest of its kind along the Rhine. The ten day festival which also includes live music acts, party marquees and a wide choice of culinary delights takes place every year in the third week of July. It culminates in a huge fire works display on the Rhine. Düsseldorf's most popular tourist attraction - which could have to do with the cozy taverns. There are said to be over 260 of them. Locally the old town center is also known as the longest bar in town. Here Altbier - a top fermented dark beer - is drunk. Düsseldorf-newbies should try the brewery tour - it includes sampling beer as well as a visit to one or several traditional small breweries. Düsseldorf is a fashion metropolis and the Königsalleee its unofficial cat walk. The shopping mile in the city center is sort of like Düsseldorf's answer to the Champs-Elysées. A broad boulevard shaded by huge trees with lots of restaurants and cafes and of course luxury boutiques as well as a row of exquisite department stores enticing you to take a stroll and at least do some window-shopping. Many paths lead to Düsseldorf. The Rhine metropolis has an international airport - which is also the third biggest in Germany. However the most picturesque way to arrive in Düsseldorf is by crossing one of six Rhine bridges. These are also popular photo motifs. Together with the television tower they shape the cityscape. Author: Anne Termèche Every evening at 1830 UTC, DW's editors send out a selection of the day's hard news and quality feature journalism. You can sign up to receive it directly here.