Bolivia's election authority said late Monday that President Evo Morales had cracked a 10-point percentage lead over his nearest opponent, Carlos Mesa. With 95% of the votes counted, the latest count shows Morales with just over 46.8% and Mesa at 36.7%, enough of a margin to avoid a second round of voting. Election officials updated a preliminary vote count Monday evening after a nearly 24-hour pause sparked protests and calls from international observers and foreign governments for it to resume, in order to ensure transparency. Read more: Morales' bid to extend term limits sparks mass protest Monday evening's numbers show Mesa's vote percentage as being lower than Sunday's count, which had him above 38%. Morales added one percentage point, up from 45%. Mesa has refused to recognize the results of the vote, calling them part of a "shameful, consumated fraud, that is putting Bolivian society in a situation of unnecessary tension." Had neither candidate received 50% of the vote in the first round, or 40% of the vote with a 10-point lead over second place, the two leading candidates would have faced each other in a runoff on December 15. Protests in La Paz Initial results Sunday had shown Mesa making it to a second round of voting, with 84% of the ballots showing Morales short of the votes needed to avoid a runoff. On Monday, supporters of each of the opposing candidates clashed in the streets on outside of the electoral court in the capital, La Paz. By nightfall, there were reports violent clashes in other cities around Bolivia. In La Paz, police attempted to disperse protesters with tear gas, and there were reports of election offices being set on fire in other parts of the country. Bolivian Interior Minister Carlos Romero blamed the opposition for causing unrest and said "they have to take care of the violence they're generating." In Santa Cruz, an opposition stronghold, Mesa encouraged his supporters, saying "they can't take democracy away from us." Mesa told reporters that the government was trying to "manipulate" the results and prevent a runoff by stalling the vote count. In office for nearly 14 years, Morales is South America's longest-serving president. If his victory is confirmed, Morales' controversial fourth term as president comes after he overturned Bolivia's two-term limit. In a 2016 referendum, Bolivian voters rejected Morales' proposal to scrap term limits. However in 2018, the country's Supreme Court — seen by critics as being stacked with Morales loyalists — then overturned the decision and ruled that Morales had the right to run again. The school Paz y Bien is run by a Franciscan parish in San Ignacio de Velasco. Polish priest Adalberto Mazur explains music classes help the children to not only learn how to play an instrument, but also acquire social skills, discipline and how to set goals in life. Roman Arirepia practices cello at the music school in Urubicha. His dream is to become part of an international traveling orchestra. Urubicha, only accessible by unpaved roads, is a dusty Amazon village and home to one of Bolivia's largest and most famous music schools. The church provides the infrastructure, the government pays the teachers' salaries and the municipality gives donations. Olga Papu Claure, 9, is an extremely talented pianist from Urubicha. At a concert in Santa Cruz she met an American music teacher who, impressed by her talent, sent a piano from the US to Bolivia. Unfortunately, insects ate away at the wood, making it almost unplayable. The music school in Urubicha is highly regarded internationally. Many of the students who pass their exams become professional musicians or teachers in other music schools in the Chiquitania region. The school says 689 children are inscribed in the institution. For many children, becoming a musician is their dream. President Evo Morales has given his support and wants to commit more funds to arts, music and traditions. In the rural areas musical education is becoming increasingly recognized and valued. All the villages also have several choirs and orchestras which play at local fiestas and tour the neighboring towns. This local orchestra is playing in the church of Concepcion. The original 17th century musical scores are kept in the archive of Concepcion. There is only one original for public display. Even the researchers are only allowed to take digital copies. Santa Ana, the smallest among the missions, also has it's own music school. At night you hear violins being played in the streets or in the houses, when the children are practicing their homework. Samuel Cruz Tancara makes violins based on European models, using tropical woods that can withstand the moisture and heat in Concepcion. Originally from La Paz, he started his business six years ago. He learned by watching and experimenting: "The first violins sounded horrible," he told DW. Over time he was able to collect technical drawings and learn how to make the exact sizes. Author: Sanne Derks (Bolivia) wmr/cmk (AP, Reuters) Every day, DW's editors send out a selection of the day's hard news and quality feature journalism. You can sign up to receive it directly here.