Collective action by a German cabin crew union disrupted Eurowings, Germanwings, Lufthansa Cityline and Sunexpress  flights on Sunday. The strike is set to last until midnight (22:00 UTC), after it was extended for 13 hours at short notice. Airports in Berlin, Munich, Cologne-Bonn and Düsseldorf have so far canceled connecting flights because of the action. A strike by UFO union members has caused widespread delays and cancellations in airports in western Germany At least 15 flights from the German carrier Eurowings were canceled at Berlin's airports, according to a spokeswoman. Munich airport reported 10 cancelations on Sunday morning. "The affected airlines are making do with all personnel who are not organized (in the union); we'll have to wait and see what the day brings," a spokesman from Munich airport cautioned. A spokesman from Düsseldorf airport, where four connections have been canceled, also predicted more cancelations throughout the day. It is reporting that 60 flights are at risk. Read more: Left party leader calls for nationalizing German airlines Ongoing dispute The UFO union, which organized the strike, initially planned to last between 5 a.m and 11 a.m. local time (03:00 UTC and 09:00 UTC). Explaining the decision to extend the length of the walkout, deputy UFO chairman Daniel Flohr said "the group (Lufthansa) has quickened its pace, with consequences not only for workers' rights, but also in terms of job losses." "Such an approach, unfortunately, does not make it seem likely that we can reach an agreement on our demands," added Flohr. He added that there could be further walkouts at Lufthansa itself, where UFO on Friday called off a planned warning strike for Sunday. Lufthansa has called the strike action illegal. The company also maintains that the union's new leaders, who took office earlier this year, were not properly elected and are thus not in a position to legally represent staff. UFO organized the walkout over worker's wages, company pensions and part-time work provisions. It is looking for a 2% pay rise for its cabin crew, after it won a 2% pay rise for cabin crew at Lufthansa. kmm/tj (dpa/Reuters) The plane tails of Australia's national airline Qantas are embellished with a stylized kangaroo, hence the nickname "the Flying Kangaroo!" Even from a far distance, it's easy to tell which continent the plane comes from. After all, kangaroos only exist in Australia. This animal has become a sort of national logo, appearing not only on planes but also on Australia's coat of arms and currency. In contrast to its Australian counterpart, the logo of KLM Royal Dutch Airlines is more factual. The abstract symbol of a crown in combination with the three letters KLM leaves no doubt as to which country this plane comes from. And that's what logos are all about. The tiny West African state is a paradise for birds and their friends. More than 500 different kinds of birds live in the Gambia. Tourists don't even need to take birdwatching trips because many birds can be spotted in hotel gardens — they're just everywhere! Perhaps unsurprisingly, the Gambian national airline went for a bird as its logo when it was founded in 2012. Service ceased in 2014. The Seattle-based airline has proved its creativity on several occasions during its 90-year-long history. The company was among the first airlines to sell tickets online and to offer online and automatic check-ins. Like its name, the logo of the airline refers to Alaska and its indigenous inhabitants, the Inuit. A trade embargo and political tensions between 1980 and 2016 made it hard for Iran's state airline with headquarters at Tehran's Mehrabad airport to modernize its planes. But maybe the "homa," the mythological bird used in the logo, came to the rescue of the airline. According to Persian mythology, "homa" is believed to bring luck and joy while living its life entirely in the sky. Over the years Tanzania's national airline has also had to face numerous challenges. Sometimes its fleet was in the air, sometimes not, and the airline's owners also frequently changed. It's certainly not the fault of the giraffe logo. The world's tallest animal looks so friendly and inviting on the plane;what passenger could say no to stepping onboard for a trip to Mount Kilimanjaro? A crane has served as the logo of Germany's largest airline since 1918. Some types of cranes cover enormous distances when they migrate, but others are considered pests due to their enormous appetites. Lufhansa is now flying into the future with a new logo design. The symbol will be the same, but the colors will change. Goodbye yellow and gray, hello simple white and blue! Author: Conny Paul (ad) Every day, DW's editors send out a selection of the day's hard news and quality feature journalism. You can sign up to receive it directly here.