Space history gained another milestone on Friday when American astronauts Christina Koch and Jessica Meir conducted the first ever all-female spacewalk. The spacewalk officially began with the opening of the airlock hatch at 11:38 UTC on Friday. A few minutes later, the duo ventured out of the ISS and began their six-hour repair operation. Their task is to replace a broken battery charger, which regulates energy collected from the station's solar panels. The four remaining members of the Expedition 62 crew, all men, will remain inside in the station. The faulty charger poses no risk to the crew or the station, but is keeping the ISS from receiving an increase in power. NASA broadcast the spacewalk live on its own television service NASA TV. One for the history books This marks the 421st spacewalk ever and the 221st performed at the ISS since its launch in 1998. It is the fourth spacewalk for Koch, an electrical engineer seven months into an 11-month space mission. Her mission will be the longest ever completed by a woman. For Meir, a marine biologist, it is her first walk. She is the fifteenth woman to complete a spacewalk. Read more: Space mice — NASA's rodent astronauts In an interview before the operation, Koch told NASA, "In the past women haven't always been at the table. It's wonderful to be contributing to the space program at a time when all contributions are being accepted, when everyone has a role.” On June 16 1963, skilled Russian parachutist Valentina Tereshkova became the first woman in space, finishing 48 orbits of the earth in her space capsule Vostok 6. It would be almost 20 years until another woman left Earth's atmosphere — Svetlana Savitskaya in 1982 on the Soyuz T-7 mission. A crater on the Moon is named after Tereshkova who now sits as a member of Russia's parliament, the Duma. NASA selected Shannon Lucid, Margaret Seddon, Kathryn Sullivan, Judith Resnik, Anna Fisher, and Sally Ride as their first female astronaut candidates in January 1978. A number of American women passed the astronaut selection process in the early 1960s but were not eligible to go into space because they had not completed military jet test pilot training — a career that was unavailable to women. The first American woman in space was due to go on a third mission before the infamous Challenger disaster cut short her training in 1986. But Sally Ride made history by using robotic arms to retrieve satellites in her first two missions and later devoting her life to helping girls excel in math, science and engineering, according to President Barack Obama. She died from pancreatic cancer in 2012. Inspired by Sally Ride, Mae Jemison — physician, teacher, Peace Corps volunteer and founder of two technology companies — became the first African-American woman in space when she embarked with the Endeavor in September 1992 to conduct bone cell experiments. As chief of the 100 Year Starship program she hopes to make human flight beyond the solar system possible this century. Chiaki Mukai (center) trained as a doctor in Japan and went on to become the first Japanese woman to leave the earth, conducting multiple medical experiments in microgravity environments allowing for the study of aging in space. Her two voyages in 1994 and 1998 also allowed her to support the deployment of the Hubble Space Telescope. Kalpana means "creativity" or "imagination" in Sanskrit. After becoming the first Indian-born woman to go to space, Kalpana Chawla's first mission was to deploy satellites to study the surface of the Sun in 1997. But after her second mission was delayed three years before taking off in 2003, Chawla's Columbia shuttle broke up on re-entry into the Earth's atmosphere, killing the entire crew. Becoming a multi-millionaire entrepreneur by the age of 32 might be enough for most people, but in September 2006 Anousheh Ansari also became not only the first Iranian-born astronaut in space but also the first ever female private space explorer. After arriving at the International Space Station, she saw earth: "So peaceful, so full of life." As the first female commander of the International Space Station, Peggy Whitson also holds another slightly daunting record — almost 666 days in space, the longest length for any woman. After numerous spacewalks, Whitson returned to Earth last in 2017 after 289 days on the multi-national mission, also making her the oldest woman to go to space. Author: Louisa Wright Wardrobe malfunction The history-making walk was originally scheduled for March for Koch and astronaut Anne McClain. NASA cancelled it abruptly when it became clear there were not enough spacesuits in the appropriate size. Read more: NASA unveils new, flexible spacesuits McClain returned to Earth in June. Meir has been at the ISS since September. A second attempt by Koch and Meir had been scheduled for next week. NASA moved it up to Friday when the battery-charging unit failed. Soviet cosmonaut Alexei Leonov completed the first space walk in 1965. In 1984, Svetlana Savitskaya, also of the Soviet Union, became the first woman to complete a spacewalk. kp/rt (AP, dpa) Every evening, DW sends out a selection of the day's news and features. Sign up here.