German firefighters were deployed to remove an 18-year-old male after he broke into a detention facility in the northwestern town of Vechta, a prison spokesowoman said on Thursday. The teenager apparently tried to reach his ex-girlfriend, who is one of the inmates inside the prison. The inmate had just ended the relationship with the 18-year-old over the phone. Read more: Europe's 'most wanted' women fugitives revealed Authorities believe the man used a lamp post to scale the 4-meter (13-feet) prison wall. In order to avoid getting snagged on the razor wire, he preemptively removed most of his clothing, according to the public broadcaster NDR. He then proceeded to climb the wall of the inmate housing building and reach the barred window of his ex-girlfriend's cell on the first floor. He was soon discovered by the prison staff but refused to climb down. Eventually, firefighters reached the prison and managed to remove the youth using an extendable ladder. The man suffered a minor injury in the process, according to the DPA news agency. It was not immediately clear if the man's stunt, which took place last week, was successful in winning back the girl's heart. He is being investigated on suspicion of breaking and entering and illicit contact with a prisoner. Authorities were taking measures no prevent another unauthorized entry, but refused to provide details. Citing unnamed sources, NDR reported that the lamp pole would likely be equipped with razor wire. This museum in the capital of Croatia gathers artifacts that represent bittersweet love stories from around the globe. Inaugurated in 2006, it was awarded the EMYA Kenneth Hudson Award as the most innovative and daring museum project in Europe. Love gone wrong has been in need of more attention, since an additional branch of the museum was founded in Los Angeles in 2016. Everybody knows about the so-called happy hormones in chocolate. This Croatian woman slightly overdid it after her partner left. She donated her collection of chocolate wrappers to the museum, naming the piece of art "Since you’ve been gone". We have to admit that this is an unconventional way to dump somebody. This man gave his partner his mobile phone, so she could no longer reach him. Good thing that smartphones were fairly rare in 2003. Otherwise, that kind of move would cost an arm and a leg. Nobody wants to be number 2 in a relationship. A courageous woman from Manila said it out loud by sending the museum her story. Are you for real? Offering your girlfriend a self-help book for weight loss? Whoever you are, lots of women who have seen your story in the museum are certainly hoping you are given a book about male problems. And let's be honest, the spectrum there is quite narrow. Or shall we say ... tiny? When relationships make you sick, the breakup becomes a blessing in disguise. This man wanted to show the entire world that the end of a toxic love story is not that bad of an idea after all. Be careful who you are dating. This American woman obviously married the wrong guy. Her husband turned out to be a drug dealer, a thief and a cheater. The best thing about their entire relationship was her stylish wedding outfit. And two designers now have their items exhibited in a museum. When fate has its way: This broken roof tile is a symbol for life choices gone wrong. A woman from Switzerland offered her boyfriend a roof tile with a love message as a present. After the breakup, the woman found out that she was pregnant. Her former partner had already fallen in love with a man. Some relationships end before love does. He taught her how to skydive. They loved it and they loved each other. He died in a parachute accident. Planning ahead for "transitory love affairs:" She met a man from Peru in Amsterdam. He soon moved in with her. One day, some two months later, he suddenly disappeared. He left her a note next to a bottle of holy water shaped like the Virgin Mary. Unfortunately, she had previously discovered a plastic bag full of the exactly same bottles in his luggage. They used to skip school together and go to the shores of a lake in Florida. They broke up. But the sunlight in this exact place will never be forgotten. At least not by her. Author: Lavinia Pitu 