Read the first part of Zulfikar Abbany's Middle East Diary here. If you've been following this diary (thank you!), you'll recall part five ended at a market in Nablus. That was followed by a crash course — on a busy intersection, populated by Palestinian shoppers and traders and a small Israeli army presence — on the implications of a life dissected into "areas," or zones. In the 1990s, the Oslo Accords created three areas in the occupied West Bank. It was an internationally brokered attempt at a solution to the Israel-Palestine question. In each of the areas, certain types of control lie with the Palestinian Authority. The hills surrounding Nablus, West Bank — in the distance, a Palestinian and an Israeli village, separated by politics But in practice, Israeli law and politics rule throughout the region. Read more: Warning! You are entering Area A Reports from the EU suggest that large parts of Area C are being annexed, taken over by Israeli settlers, or colonies. They say land and other resources, such as water, are allocated "disproportionately." One of the reports suggests "water consumption by Israelis and Palestinians reflects stark inequalities." [My emphasis.] Politics of science You may wonder what this has to do with science in the Middle East. There are times when I've thought the same, especially during a field trip I went on in July. We were a group of science journalists headed for a synchrotron in Jordan. Lab life: Science journalists on a field trip through the Middle East talk to researchers at An-Najah National University, Nablus, Palestine So why were walking through markets, or visiting posh, arty-farty hotels? And isn't water bottled, anyway? Well, all this was brought into sharp focus by Dr. Ahmed Bassalat of An-Najah National University, and his wife, Dr. Hadil Abualrob. They guided us through that market, stood on that intersection and weathered stares from those military onlookers, and then took us to Bassalat's parents' home in the hills near Nablus city. Is it settlements or colonies? They showed us a plot of land that his father farms, producing the most delicious chickpeas and a cucumber-like zucchini. "Just pull them out of the ground," he encouraged us. I was thinking, but don't you need this to feed your family? No matter. We ate. Dr. Ahmed Bassalat and Dr. Hadil Abualrob at family farm land near Nablus: "Just pull it out. Eat!" How they grew such succulent greens in this dusty, dry land was mind boggling. Bassalat's dad is a genius. He's modified old plastic bottles to construct a custom irrigation system. And it works a treat. The scene was idyllic. This could have been midsummer's evening in a European farming region, like Kent or the Allgäu. The sun set behind us, and it was… romantic. But Bassalat's was never far "off-message." Palestinian tradition, he told us, dictates that land gets passed through the generations and divided among siblings. But here, there was no way of knowing from one day to the next whether the Israelis would come and colonize the area. Physicist Dr. Ahmed Bassalat at his parents' farming land, talking to journalists and James Gillies of CERN We stood for a moment discussing semantics. What was worse? A settlement or a colony? What is more an act of imposing your will and might over another? It was the kind of debate that only "first-world travelers" could have. But does it really matter which words we use? No. Probably not. Not when we still don't really feel what it means. The concrete treatment "That house over there," said Bassalat, and I'm paraphrasing from memory, because we were just chatting, captivated. But the words are pretty close to the truth. "That house is on a border that's marked here, just where the asphalt stops." If you didn't know it, you would walk right over it. His father's farm was about 20 meters farther down the road. "They've been told, they're on a list. Their house could be destroyed anytime," he said. Send  Facebook   Twitter   google+   Whatsapp   Tumblr   linkedin   stumble   Digg   reddit   Newsvine Permalink https://p.dw.com/p/3MYbL Some families in his parents' village know what that looks like. "Sometimes they come and destroy the second floor of a house and then fill it in with concrete," he told us. "One house, they destroyed the second floor, and left it empty." No concrete filling. "That family was lucky," he smiled. Sardonically. You could tell he'd used that "punchline" before. But we all laughed, with a latent sense of terror and unease. Construction work in Nablus, West Bank, Palestine: One floor is ruins, one floor above is a restaurant If that's what life is like in Palestine — rightly or wrongly, no matter who feels who threw the first stone, or who has the right to whatever — how do you concentrate on theoretical things such as physics? Sure. Physics is nature and nature is life. But it's not daily life, daily survival. So how do you leave home to study magnets in France, as Hadil Abualrob did, or high energy physics like her husband, Ahmed Bassalat? Perhaps there's a human sense of curiosity that just won't die. Perhaps there's an urge to use one's privilege to help others when you return. Who knows? If nothing else, I was slowly beginning to understand why so many Palestinian scientists refuse (I was going to use a milder formulation like "are reluctant" or "would rather not" but actually they refuse) to collaborate with Israeli scientists and universities. It's not personal, you see. It's politics. But the politics is always personal. The following day, back at An-Najah National University, we met Professor Hikmat Hilal, who specializes in nanotechnology. I asked him whether he gets support from the Palestinian Authority to further his research. And his answers illustrated to me that Palestinians, both scientists and non-scientists, are forever fed through a maze of checkpoints ­— the political, professional and personal. Professor Hikmat Hilal recalls having to hold university lectures in people's home and even in shops during the Intifada "My colleague was supposed to be at his lecture this morning at 8," said Hilal. "And we were kidding with him, 'Why are you so late? Man, you don't work hard enough!' And he said, 'There were checkpoints. They made us wait.'" Okay. Heard that, we thought. "Another example. For several years we couldn't reach these laboratories. You know what I mean? We were just teaching," Hilal went on. And Bassalat interjected: "We would meet at people's homes and professors would come there and give us our lectures. It was university at home!" Hilal: "Sometimes it took me eight hours to reach Nablus. Not the labs. The labs were sieged. Believe me, there were times I went on all fours, we were in the hilly areas, and I walked like that because I was afraid of slipping down. Nobody can ever imagine how we did it." "We changed cars three or four times," said Hilal. And it went on for years. "Back then I might get emails from Israeli colleagues inviting me to collaborate, and I told them, I appreciate your invitation, but on what ethical basis can I collaborate with the Israeli scientists without seeing my chief technician? How can I? I'm not even able to…" he trailed off. Palestinian university laboratories can look like any other, but scientists say their access to checmicals is restricted "Now, there is no Intifada," he continued. "But they are doing it another way. They are keeping us away from advanced technology. They follow what we publish. We can give you a list of things which are forbidden, a list of chemicals which we're not allowed to have, although we have very good record on safety." And on and on. How do you do any science in conditions like that? Indeed, what exactly can you give back to your community when all that you have is taken away? [A former boss of mine would call that last line "glib." But that's the score.] For decades, there have been injustices on both sides. But the Israeli State is undoubtedly more powerful than the Palestinian Authority. You could argue that the Israelis have more to protect, more to defend. The Palestinians, by contrast, have a lot to fight for, and very little left to lose. But all that will seep into every aspect of life in the Middle East. One last thing: Headscarves I almost forgot to mention dinner. Hadil Abualrob and Ahmed Bassalat treated us to a generous feast of chicken and rice, a traditional soup — to warmth and generosity. Dr. Hadil Abualrob (left) of An-Najah National University, Nablus, and Dr. Ahmed Bassalat It was delicious. But that's not my point. It was what we discussed after dinner that matters. Abualrob wears headscarves. She and her husband are Muslim. But Hadil wears them for fashion. The styles and colors change from season to season, she told us. Still, we discussed "headscarves" as a religious and political thing. Probably prompted by my unruly inclination to disturb decorum, my incongruity. Our Spanish colleague, Daniel Mediavilla of the daily newspaper El País, looked up at me from his plate, said he wanted to play Devil's Advocate, and suggested that any opposition to headscarves in Western society was surely there to stop any one religion becoming dominant and too powerful. It's a fair point. But only when you handle all other religions equally. Science Deco: Inside a laboratory at An-Najah National University, Nablus, West Bank In Spain, as in Germany, taxes are forwarded to the church. In Spain you opt-in, in Germany you opt-out. But these are technically secular nations — no state religion — and yet the Christian church is dominant in this way. No other religion claims taxes via the state. Read more: Bavarian court upholds headscarf ban for judges, prosecutors You can't wear a headscarf. But you can wear a cross. Hoist be my own petard "But isn't the real problem," I proposed, "that it's easy for the public, media, and politicians, to utilize the image of headscarves as a symbol… of some kind of 'other.' A thing that's not 'us', whatever that 'us' is?" The same as orthodox Jews, who mark themselves with particular dress and customs. But we never hear politicians and other soapboxers complain about that. I was feeling quite righteous. All smiles: Students at An-Najah National University Until Hadil asked what we had thought when we met her that afternoon and first saw her wearing a headscarf. Most said it hadn't figured at all, we'd barely noticed. I, with the Muslim name but no religion, went on a bit too long. Protesting my innocence with stutters of "I was more attracted to the color of your jacket… blah, blah, blah…" Conflicts of interest and discrimination But that night I lay awake knowing I had lied. How I could have been so disingenuous. Of course, I had noticed her headscarf. Hadil also wears dental braces. But it was the headscarf I saw. And I had found it a struggle to look away. I told her so the next morning at An-Najah. She, quite understandably, was bewildered. But I was ashamed at these shards of racism, this shrapnel from the day-to-day discourse about who's right and who's wrong, who's black, who's white, who gets to power and who must serve. Sunsets on Nablus and its surrounding hills I, with the Muslim name and no religion. Unconsciously biased against my people. It was a shock to my system as we had developed warm relations with both Israelis and Palestinians. As a journalist, you should avoid warm relations altogether. They lead to conflicts of interest. But that aside, I could not reconcile the fact that my feelings of warmth towards Hadil and Ahmed bothered me more than those feeling of warmth towards Naama Shilony at the Israel Academy of Humanities and Sciences in Jerusalem, for instance. Send  Facebook   Twitter   google+   Whatsapp   Tumblr   linkedin   stumble   Digg   reddit   Newsvine Permalink https://p.dw.com/p/3NVVX And it still bothers me. I'm sure it's affected the way I have interpreted and written up this diary. For better or worse? I don't know. GeekWire's Alan Boyle kindly suggested to me later that I was overthinking things. Perhaps. But this is why we, as a group, had to learn about daily life in Palestine. Because if the political is personal, then in Palestine the science is, too. Coming soon, the final part in Zulfikar Abbany's Middle East Diary: —  Open door policy at the SESAME synchrotron? United Nations Security Council Resolution 242, passed on November 22, 1967, called for the exchange of land for peace. Since then, many of the attempts to establish peace in the region have referred to 242. The resolution was written in accordance with Chapter VI of the UN Charter, under which resolutions are recommendations, not orders. A coalition of Arab states, led by Egypt and Syria, fought Israel in the Yom Kippur or October War in October 1973. The conflict eventually led to the secret peace talks that yielded two agreements after 12 days. This picture from March 26, 1979, shows Egyptian President Anwar Sadat, his US counterpart Jimmy Carter and Israeli Prime Minister Menachem Begin after signing the accords in Washington. The US and the former Soviet Union came together to organize a conference in the Spanish capital city of Madrid. The discussions involved Israel, Jordan, Lebanon, Syria, and Palestinians — not from the Palestinian Liberation Organization (PLO) — who met with Israeli negotiators for the first time. While the conference achieved little, it did create the framework for later, more productive talks. The negotiations in Norway between Israel and the PLO, the first direct meeting between the two parties, resulted in the the Oslo I Accord. The agreement was signed in the US in September 1993. It demanded that Israeli troops withdraw from West Bank and Gaza and a self-governing, interim Palestinian authority be set up for a five-year transitional period. A second accord was signed in 1995. US President Bill Clinton invited Israeli Prime Minister Ehud Barak and PLO Chairman Yasser Arafat to the retreat in July 2000 to discuss borders, security, settlements, refugees and Jerusalem. Despite the negotiations being more detailed than ever before, no agreement was concluded. The failure to reach a consensus at Camp David was followed by renewed Palestinian uprising, the Second Intifada. The Camp David negotiations were followed first by meetings in Washington and then in Cairo and Taba, Egypt — all without results. Later the Arab League proposed the Arab Peace Initiative in Beirut in March 2002. The plan called on Israel to withdraw to pre-1967 borders so that a Palestinian state could be set up in the West Bank and Gaza. In return, Arab countries would agree to recognize Israel. The US, EU, Russia and the UN worked together as the Middle East Quartet to develop a road map to peace. While Palestinian Prime Minister Mahmoud Abbas accepted the text, his Israeli counterpart Ariel Sharon had more reservations with the wording. The timetable called for a final agreement on a two-state solution to be reached in 2005. Unfortunately, it was never implemented. In 2007 US President George W. Bush hosted a conference in Annapolis, Maryland, to relaunch the peace process. Israeli Prime Minister Ehud Olmert and Palestinian Authority President Mahmoud Abbas took part in talks with officials from the Quartet and over a dozen Arab states. It was agreed that further negotiations would be held with the goal of reaching a peace deal by the end of 2008. In 2010, US Middle East Envoy George Mitchell convinced Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu to agree to and implement a ten-month moratorium on settlements in disputed territories. Later, Netanyahu and Abbas agreed to relaunch direct negotiations to resolve all issues. Negotiations began in Washington in September 2010, but within weeks there was a deadlock. A new round of violence broke out in and around Gaza late 2012. A ceasefire was reached between Israel and those in power in the Gaza Strip, which held until June 2014. The kidnapping and murder of three Israeli teenagers in June 2014 resulted in renewed violence and eventually led to the Israeli military operation Protective Edge. It ended with a ceasefire on August 26, 2014. Envoys from over 70 countries gathered in Paris, France, to discuss the conflict between Israelis and Palestinians. Netanyahu slammed the discussions as "rigged" against his country. Neither Israeli nor Palestinian representatives attended the summit. "A two-state solution is the only possible one," French Foreign Minister Jean-Marc Ayrault said at the opening of the event. Despite the year's optimistic opening, 2017 brought further stagnation in the Israeli-Palestinian peace process. A deadly summer attack on Israeli police at the Temple Mount, a site holy to both Jews and Muslims, sparked deadly clashes. Then US President Donald Trump's plan to move the embassy to Jerusalem prompted Palestinian leader Abbas to say "the measures ... undermine all peace efforts." Author: Aasim Saleem