According to estimates by the World Health Organization (WHO), about one billion people worldwide fall ill with influenza every year. In three to five million cases, the disease takes a severe course. Between 290,000 and 650,000 die as a result of the associated respiratory diseases. A team of researchers led by the biomedical scientist Richard Plemper from Atlanta has now successfully tested an antiviral drug against influenza — but so far only in animal experiments on ferrets and in the laboratory on human airway tissue. The compound EIDD-2801 blocks an enzyme called RNA polymerase, which plays an important role in the proliferation of viruses. As a result, the molecule triggers mutations in the genome of the virus. If enough mutations occur, the genome becomes ineffective and the virus can no longer reproduce. The physicians published their research results on October 23 in the journal Science Translational Medicine. Read more: Next flu pandemic 'a matter of when, not if,' says WHO The immune system needs many different types of fuel. Fruit and vegetables provide them. Your diet should be healthy and colorful: Oranges, red peppers, green leafy vegetables and red cabbage provide a potpourri of vitamins, and are especially rich in natural vitamin C. In order to ensure your immune system is top-top, make sure you have all the necessary immunizations. Adults often forget to refresh vaccinations they had when they were young. Check if you need booster shots for tetanus, diphtheria, whooping cough, polio, hepatitis, pneumococcus, meningitis, measles, mumps, rubella, the flu and others. Be sure to talk to your doctor! Scientific studies suggest that regular muscle training (jogging, nordic or pole walking, taking a stroll), three times a week for 20 minutes can boost your defenses. But be careful: overdoing it can also drain your immune system. Sufficient sleep doesn't just allow your body to recuperate. During the slow-wave sleep phase, neurotransmitters are released and the immune system springs into action. Studies show that good spirits and a zest for life promote a strong immune system. Laughing and playing don't just provide for a better quality of life, they also boost the body's defenses. Negative stress activates the release of adrenalin and cortisol. These hormones can paralyze the immune system. Sensible stress and time management allows the body to rest and replenish new energy. Selective relaxation exercises like meditation, autogenic training and yoga can significantly boost the immune system. Taking walks in the fresh air gives you a change of temperature and exercise - both stimulate the body's defense systems. Mucous membranes also benefit from improved circulation and the increased humidity makes it easier to fight off attacks. Studies have shown that burning up short chain sugars like fructose and glucose uses up many vitamins that are no longer available to the body. Alternating hot and cold showers help regulate body heat and improve blood flow. An invigorating massage with a massage sponge or brush stimulates the immune system even more. Effective against many virus strains "The compound is highly effecatious against influenza," said Dr. Plemper, who teaches biomedicine at Georgia State University and developed EIDD-2801 in collaboration with colleagues at Emory University. "It's orally available, it's [been tested for] a broad spectrum [of] all influenza virus strains... and most importantly, it establishes a high barrier against viral escape from inhibition." Among other things, the compound was also tested against the swine flu virus, which broke out worldwide in 2009. Ferrets are very similar to humans in their reaction to influenza viruses. After treatment with the drug, they showed significantly shorter duration of fever than the animals in the control group. No resistance observed With previous antiviral drugs, there was always the problem that the viruses succeeded in developing resistance to the drugs through mutation. Dr. Mart Toots, one of the main authors of the study, said that it will be very difficult for the virus to escape the new medicine. "We have not identified specific resistance mutations yet," Dr. Plemper added. He pointed out that he was confident that "the genetic barrier against viral resistance is high". The compound has a "high clinical potential as a next generation influenza drug," he said. The physicians plan to test the drug on humans for the first time next year. Read more: Do I have the flu or the common cold? Often, the first sign of illness is cold feet, which is why socks and slippers play such a vital role in the German wardrobe. "Germans struggle enormously with the concept of 'naked feet,'" Australian writer Liv Hambrett noted in her book, "What I Know about Germans." Whether wool socks can combat a virus or if they simply serve as a placebo for fending off a fever's chills remains to be seen. The German answer to many of life's problems can be found in the sauna; the steam baths and hot cabins are said to be strengthen the immune system when used in the proper order. While it's not recommended to go in if you have a fever, the German Sauna Organization says the sauna can actually help a cold as the shift from hot to cold increases circulation in the mucus membranes. In keeping with the advice to never allow the body to get cold, for stomach ailments or muscle aches, doctors will often advise a day spent cuddling with a hot water bottle in bed. Some say the increased circulation brought on by the heat eases bloating and indigestion. Just make sure the top is screwed on tight to prevent burns. Ginger has long played a role in ayurvedic and Traditional Chinese Medicine; it's been recognized for its powers to curb nausea and motion sickness. In Germany, ginger is also often brewed into a tea - cut into cubes and plopped into boiling water. The stinging effect it has as it slides down your throat is said to relieve soreness brought on by a cold. While Koreans believe in the health-inducing properties of kim chi, fermented cabbage, Germans find sauerkraut a must-eat for staying healthy. Loaded with vitamin C and flavonoids, the popular dish is said to be a virus-fighting powerhouse and unsurpassed digestive aid to be consumed throughout the year to fend off germs. However, eating it is perhaps a better option than bathing in it. Ginger isn't the only spice that Germans brew in hot water and call tea. Depending on your ailment, you may be told to drink sage, oregano, peppermint, fennel, chamomile or an herbal tea to ease your pain. It may taste like licking a medicine cabinet, but at the very least, the time spent sipping tea can relax one enough to feel better momentarily. "Gute Besserung" - get well soon! Lemons and other citrus fruits are packed full of vitamin C. Even though the vitamin hasn't been proven to prevent colds, drinking lemon juice with hot water sooths sore throats and is a good detoxer. If the simple beverage is too sour for you, add a spoonful of honey. Author: Courtney Tenz