The Russian government formally declared an organization run by opposition leader Alexei Navalny as a "foreign agent" on Wednesday, the Justice Ministry announced on its website. The listing is seen as the latest attempt to squeeze the opposition. Navalny is a well-known challenger to Russian President Vladimir Putin and has been jailed repeatedly for organizing protests. Navalny's Anti-Corruption Foundation (FBK), which regularly publishes investigations into graft by state officials, will now be subject to increased oversight by Russian authorities and made to submit regular reports on who its managers are and how it spends its money. They must also declare their sources of funding and their objectives. Read more: NGOs in Russia — Battered, but unbowed Navalny denies foreign involvement Under a controversial 2012 law, Russian officials can label civil society groups "foreign agents" if they say they have received funding from abroad. The foundation's director, Ivan Zhdanov, said the anti-corruption group has not accepted any foreign funding and added that the designation is aimed at hampering the organization's activities. "All of FBK's money comes from your donations — that of Russian citizens," Navalny tweeted on Wednesday. "The Justice Ministry's actions are totally unlawful and are clearly done on Putin's order." The group rose to prominence due to its major anti-corruption investigations and has since grown into a Russia-wide network of Navalny supporters who probe local officials and stage opposition rallies in their regions. The group gained gained visibility thanks to its crowdfunding of a number of investigations into corrupt Russian officials. In recent years, the anti-corruption group developed into a network of Navalny's supporters who have carried out opposition rallies in several regions. To crush down on dissent, several state-owned bodies and enterprises, including the Moscow subway, have been suing opposition figures over August's mass protests, with figures already exceeding $280,000 (€255,000). mvb, rs/dr (AP, AFP, Reuters) Every evening, DW sends out a selection of the day's news and features. Sign up here. The lawyer-turned-political campaigner has been among the most prominent figures of Russia's opposition to President Vladimir Putin. Navalny came to prominence in 2008, when his blog exposing malpractice in Russian politics and among the country's major state-owned companies came to public attention. Revelations published on his blog even led to resignations, a rarity in Russian politics. In 2011, Navalny was arrested for the first time, spending 15 days in prison for his role at a rally outside the State Duma in Moscow. The parliamentary election victory for Putin's United Russia was marred by instances of ballot stuffing, reported by demonstrators on social media. Upon his release, Navalny pledged to make "extraordinary efforts" to continue the protest movement. After being reelected president in 2012, Putin ordered Russia's Investigative Committee to launch a criminal inquiry into Navalny's past. The following year the campaigner was charged and sentenced again, this time for five years, for alleged embezzlement in the city of Kirov. However, he was released the following day pending affirmation from a higher court. The sentence was later suspended. Despite being embroiled in legal troubles, Navalny was allowed to run in the 2013 Moscow mayoral election. A second-place finish behind Putin ally Sergei Sobyanin was seen as an overwhelming success and galvanized the Russian opposition movement. His anti-Kremlin rhetoric has led to Navalny being banned from appearing on Russian state-owned television. That has forced him to deliver his political message over social media and his blog. His talent for public speaking, punchy use of language and humorous mockery of Putin and his loyalists has mobilized a legion of young followers. In December 2016, the opposition leader announced the formal start of his campaign to run for the Russian presidency in March 2018. However, repeated accusations of corruption, which his supporters say are politically motivated, ultimately barred him from running for public office. In 2016, the European Court of Human Rights ruled that Russia had violated Navalny's right to a fair trial in the Kirov case. Although Russia's Supreme Court overturned the five-year sentence, the verdict was sent back to the Kirov court, which in 2017 again charged Navalny with a suspended five-year sentence. In February 2017, anti-corruption rallies across dozens of Russian cities led to the arrests of over 1,000 demonstrators, including Navalny. The protests, believed to have been the largest in the Russian capital since 2012, were spurred by a report published by Navalny linking Prime Minister Dmitry Medvedev to a billion-euro property empire. Navalny was released 15 days later. Navalny was assaulted and hospitalized in April 2017 after being hit in the eye with a chemical green dye, an attack that permanently damaged his right cornea. Navalny accused Russian authorities of stopping him from seeking medical treatment abroad due to the embezzlement conviction against him. He was eventually permitted by the Kremlin human rights council to travel to Spain for eye surgery. In 2018, Navalny was jailed for 30 days, and then another 20-day stint upon his release in September. In April 2019, the European Court of Human Rights ruled Russia had violated Navalny's rights by holding him under house arrest for most of 2014 during the Kirov embezzlement case. Only weeks after being released from a 10-day jail sentence, Navalny was again jailed for 30 days in July 2019 for violating Russia's strict protest laws. The opposition leader accused Russia of poisoning him with an allergic agent while in jail. Author: David Martin