Various speakers addressed assembled crowds outside the Saudi consulate in Istanbul; a minute's silence was held and a memorial stone was unveiled. The UN special rapporteur on extra-judicial killings, Agnes Callamard, spoke at the memorial, giving her opinion on Saudi Arabia's responsibility for the murder. "No one should get away with murder. Not even a power as influential as Saudi Arabia should get away with murder, and then audaciously reply on the indifference of the world to provide them with cover. Justice must be served." Callamard was responsible for the investigation into Khashoggi's murder. She previously told DW that the trial organized by Saudi crown prince Mohammed bin Salman "failed to meet international standards." The murder remains unresolved one year since Khashoggi entered the Saudi consulate in Turkey and never came out. Read more: Jamal Khashoggi's murder unresolved, one year on The journalist was allegedly killed and dismembered by a hit squad of 15 armed men sent from Riyadh. Image of Khashoggi to mark one year since his murder 'Rogue country' Yemeni Nobel Peace prize laureate and revolutionary Tawakkol Karman also denounced Saudia Arabia in an angry speech at Wednesday's memorial ceremony. "The same rogue country that killed Khashoggi is the same rogue country that destroyed Yemen," she said, referencing the ongoing conflict in the country. Read more: Yemen's Houthi rebels: Who are they and what do they want? She said that the event and the response by Saudia Arabia would "undermine all Mohammed bin Salman's efforts to promote himself as a global leader." Jeff Bezos and Hatice Cengiz together on stage Body still missing Hatice Cengiz, the fiancee of the Washington Post journalist, also spoke, calling for Khashoggi's body to be returned. "I want to know what happened to his body," she said in her speech. "I want his friends to be released from jails. I want that those in power are held accountable for their actions." "All the world's eyes are on the kingdom of Saudia Arabia, and this issue will follow them everywhere," she added. She was joined on stage by the Washington Post owner and Amazon founder Jeff Bezos, who told her "You are not alone. No one should should ever have to endure what you did." October 2: Prominent journalist Jamal Khashoggi was last seen entering the Saudi consulate in Istanbul, where he had gone to obtain an official document for his upcoming marriage to his Turkish fiancee, Hatice Cengiz. He never emerged from the building, prompting Cengiz, who waited outside, to raise the alarm. October 3: Turkish and Saudi officials came up with conflicting reports on Khashoggi's whereabouts. Riyadh said the journalist had left the mission shortly after his work was done. But Turkish presidential spokesman Ibrahim Kalin said the journalist was still in the consulate. October 6: Turkish officials said they believed the journalist was likely killed inside the Saudi consulate. The Washington Post, for which Khashoggi wrote, cited unnamed sources to report that Turkish investigators believe a 15-member team "came from Saudi Arabia" to kill the man. October 8: Turkish President Recep Tayyip Erdogan called on Saudi Arabia to prove that Khashoggi left its consulate in Istanbul. Turkey also sought permission to search the mission premises. US President Donald Trump voiced concern about the journalist's disappearance. October 12: British billionaire Richard Branson halted talks over a $1 billion Saudi investment in his Virgin group's space ventures, citing Khashoggi's case. He also pulled out of an investment conference in Riyadh dubbed the "Davos in the Desert." His move was followed by Uber's Dara Khosrowshahi, JP Morgan's Jamie Dimon and a host of other business leaders. October 15: Turkish investigators searched the Saudi consulate in Istanbul. The search lasted more than eight hours and investigators removed samples from the building, including soil from the consulate garden and a metal door, one official said. October 19: Saudi Arabia finally admitted that Khashoggi died at the consulate. The kingdom's public prosecutor said preliminary investigations showed the journalist was killed in a "fistfight." He added that 18 people had been detained. A Saudi Foreign Ministry official said the country is "investigating the regrettable and painful incident." October 21: Saudi Arabia provided yet another account of what happened to Khashoggi. The kingdom's foreign minister admitted the journalist was killed in a "rogue operation," calling it a "huge and grave mistake," but insisted that Saudi Crown Prince Mohammed bin Salman had not been aware of the murder. Riyadh said it had no idea where Khashoggi's body was. October 21: German Chancellor Angela Merkel said Germany would put arms exports to Saudi Arabia on hold for the time being, given the unexplained circumstances of Khashoggi's death. Germany is the fourth largest exporter of weapons to Saudi Arabia after the United States, Britain and France. October 31: The Turkish prosecutor concluded that Khashoggi was strangled to death soon after entering the consulate, and was then dismembered. Another Turkish official later claimed the body was dissolved in acid. Turkish President Erdogan said the order to murder the journalist came from "the highest levels" of Saudi Arabia's government. November 5: Saudi Arabia told the United Nations it would prosecute those responsible for Khashoggi's murder. This came as the United States and dozens of other countries raised the journalist's death before the UN Human Rights Council and called for a transparent investigation. November 8: Khashoggi's fiancee, Hatice Cengiz, wrote on Twitter that she was "unable to express her sorrow" upon learning that the journalist's body was dissolved with chemicals. "Are these killers and those behind it human beings?" she tweeted. November 10: Turkish President Recep Tayyip Erdogan reveals that officials from Saudi Arabia, the US, Germany, France and Britain have listened to audio recordings related to the killing of journalist Jamal Khashoggi at the Saudi consulate in Istanbul. November 16: A symbolic funeral prayer for Khashoggi is held in the courtyard of the Fatih Mosque in Istanbul. Yasin Aktay, advisor to President Erdogan, speaks at the service. November 26: Turkish forensic police bring the investigation to the Turkish province of Yalova, where sniffer dogs and drones search two Saudi-owned villas in the village Samanli. January 10: Amnesty International Turkey members demonstrate outside the Saudi Arabia Consulate in Istanbul, marking 100 day since the killing of Jamal Khashoggi. One woman holds up a street sign which reads "Jamal Khashoggi Street". The organization has called for an international investigation into the case. January 3: The Khashoggi trial begins in Saudi Arabia, where state prosecutors say they will seek the death sentence for five of the eleven suspects. A request for the gathered evidence has been send to Turkish authorities. A date for the second hearing has not yet been set. January 28: Agnes Callamard, who is leading the UN probe into the handling of the Khashoggi case, arrives in Ankara where she meets with Turkish Foreign Minister Mevlut Cavusoglu. The human rights expect will stay in the country for the rest of the week to speak with prosecutors and others involved in the case. Author: Ashutosh Pandey UN efforts to investigate the murder have stalled in recent months and it is unknown whether anyone will ever face trial. Crown Prince Mohammed bin Salman's claims that he seeks to modernize the absolute monarchy with strict Islamic laws have faced redoubled skepticism since Khashoggi's murder. Send  Facebook   Twitter   google+   Whatsapp   Tumblr   linkedin   stumble   Digg   reddit   Newsvine Permalink https://p.dw.com/p/3KkdB ed/msh (dpa, Reuters) Every evening, DW sends out a selection of the day's news and features. Sign up here.