Manuel Neuer: Back in goal after Marc-Andre ter Stegen picked up the gloves in the Argentina match, Neuer had little to do. He made one notable save at the start of the second half, but was largely untroubled. 6 Lukas Klostermann: Didn't see much of the ball in the first half and didn't have much chance to impress going forward as play favored the left wing and the center. Saw a bit more of the ball in the second 45 and was solid enough when necessary in defense. 6 Niklas Süle: A mixed performance from the Bayern defender. He gave a poor pass to Can in the buildup to his teammate's red card, and was unconvincing dealing with Estonia's balls into the box. However, he was strong on the ground and won the majority of his duels. 6 Emre Can: He only lasted 14 minutes on the pitch and takes the unwanted record of receiving Germany's fastest ever red card. Can was handed a hospital pass by Süle but still let the ball run across his body and was caught out. Perhaps unlucky to see red for what was a poor tackle, but nevertheless a disappointing showing. Not ideal following the controversy from earlier in the day. 4 Marcel Halstenberg: Pushed forward at every opportunity, combined well with his midfielders at times and made some important second-half blocks. But overall a pretty quiet match from the RB Leipzig fullback. 6 Joshua Kimmich: Was moved into a center-back role after Can's red card and was the most impressive performer along the back line. Calm in tight spaces, never panicked, and defended well on the ground. Kimmich also still managed to push forward and initiate attacks. 7 Ilkay Gündogan: Took on the majority of the creativity responsibilities from a very deep position but struggled to make an impact in the first half. After the break, however, he was imperious. He scored two deflected goals but his best moment was the assist for Timo Werner. The beautifully lofted ball showed off great vision and technique. 9 Kai Havertz: Didn't get on the ball too much, had a few poor touches, and generally failed to make a big impact. Credited with an assist for the first goal but it wasn't his best match with a few of his passes off-target or lacking the right weight. 6 Julian Brandt had a quiet match against Estonia. Julian Brandt: A very poor first-half showing improved in the second period, much like most of the team. But he was still bullied off the ball too easily, failed to stick a number of passes and was labored in his movement. Produced a nice shot in the second half which was well saved by Estonia's keeper. 5 Marco Reus: Had his moments, often dropping deep into midfield to pick up possession. Hit the crossbar with a free kick just before halftime and produced a nice backheel to set up Gündogan's second goal. 7 Luca Waldschmidt: Despite a trademark effort from range on 24 minutes, which was palmed away, Waldschmidt was largely anonymous. He too dropped deep at times and didn't offer an outlet up front. A tough match for the youngster, who hasn't provided an answer to Germany's striker issues yet. 5 Substitutes Timo Werner: Came on and immediately provided Germany with an outlet up front with his pace. Executed his goal to perfection and also saw a decent effort tipped behind. 7 Suat Serdar (77th) and Nadiem Amiri (86th) were once again given limited game time to make an impression. The most controversial omission from Löw's World Cup 2018 squad and the most internationally experienced player on this list, Sané still has plenty to prove. After a frustrating start to his Germany career, he scored his first two goals in November and started to look the part. A key member of a Manchester City squad in the hunt for four trophies, his direct running and pace make him a huge asset. The Bayern Munich right winger offers a similar threat to Sane on the other side of the pitch. An Olympic silver medal winner in 2016, Gnabry scored a hat-trick on his debut against San Marino later that year. But fitness issues and Löw's former faith in the old guard mean he hasn't yet fully established himself. A strong season so far for Bayern means that's liikely to change soon. The third member of an attacking-midfield trident that looks set to line up behind TImo Werner for some time, teenager Havertz has made great strides at the age of 19. The Bayer Leverkusen playmaker has racked up 79 Bundesliga appearances and become a key man for the Werkself. Mesut Özil's international resignation opened a spot for the youngster who has impressed in his displays so far. Havertz's Leverkusen teammate was in Germany's Euro 2016 squad but missed out on Russia. His tally of caps since his debut three years ago speaks to his struggles to break into the side. But the culling of Mats Hummels and Jerome Boateng offers a chance for center backs. At 23, Tah is enjoying one of his best seasons, particularly since the arrival of Peter Bosz. Can he become a regular? Another man looking to take advantage of defensive vacancies. Kehrer can play at center back but may end up as Germany's right back, with Löw keen on Joshua Kimmich in midfield. The 22-year-old left Schalke for Paris Saint-Germain and has become a regular in Thomas Tuchel's side. Quick and strong in the tackle and on the ball, Kehrer's concentration sometimes wanes but the potential is there. A tidy central midfielder with an eye for goal, many thought the Werder Bremen man would make Germany's squad in November after both club and player enjoyed a strong start to the season. Though the early season goals have dried up a little, the 22-year-old has an importance to Bremen which belies his relatively tender years and will hope to make his international debut in the coming week. Another new face hoping to make his full Germany bow after progressing through the youth teams, Stark has enjoyed a strong season at Hertha Berlin. The Nuremberg academy graduate is a smart reader of the game and has become an increasingly influential figure at the capital city club since moving there in 2015. While most comfortable at center back, Stark can also play as a holding midfielder. One of a number of players given the chance to fill the troublesome left-sided defensive slot in recent years, Schulz is a solid performer for Hoffenheim. The Berlin-born 25-year-old is dangerous going forward and probably more of a natrual wingback, which gives him an advantage now that Löw is looking to play three at the back. Scored a deflected winner on his debut against Peru in September. Another potential replacement for Jonas Hector, who seems to have fallen out of favor while in division 2with Cologne, the RB Leipzig left-back made his debut for Germany against England in 2017 but hasn't been seen in a Germany shirt since. At 27, he's a late bloomer, having failed to make the grade at Borussia Dortmund as a youngster, but his strong, direct style may suit Löw's new tactics. Another member of the Germany team that won silver at the Rio Olympics (which did not count as interntional caps) Klostermann is a marauding fullback comfortable bombing forward. A second RB Leipzig man, the right-sided 22-year-old has been an integral part of the Bundesliga's tightest defense this season and is another potential beneficiary of Kimmich's move in to midfield. Author: Matt Pearson