A Hong Kong court charged 18-year-old student, Tsang (Tony) Chi-Kin, of rioting, and who may face up to 10 years in prison. Tsang was among seven people charged with rioting on Thursday. The secondary school student also faces two additional counts of attacking two police officers, punishable by up to six months in prison. A police officer had shot Tsang in the chest on Tuesday, China's National day. Tsang did not appear in court, his lawyer was due in court on his behalf. Around 200 supporters turned up to watch the proceedings. Dozens of supporters, many dressed in black, sat outside the courthouse. Tsang is the first victim of police gunfire in the city's pro-democracy protests. The day the shooting took place was the most violent of the demonstrations to date. A police officer shot Tsang at close range during a violent demonstration as the student struck him with a metal rod. Tsang was consequently arrested in hospital. The Hong Kong government has said that the student was in a stable condition after surgery and was not able to attend the court session. People took part in a students' march on the campus of the Chinese University of Hong in solidarity with Tsang A group of Hong Kong citizens held a press conference on Thursday after authoring a letter to Hong Kong Chief Executive Carrie Lam, which 4,500 people have signed. The letter demands an investigation into "the abuse of basic human rights of children" during the pro-democracy protests. If Lam does not respond to the letter, the group threatened to appeal to the United Nations Committee on the Rights of the Child. "We strongly condemn the abuse of power by the government and the police. We are deeply concerned about the situation and the safety of detained children," they said. The shooting took place as Communist leaders in Beijing were celebrating 70 years in power. Read more: Sieren's China: In Hong Kong, it's time for compromise Send  Facebook   Twitter   google+   Whatsapp   Tumblr   linkedin   stumble   Digg   reddit   Newsvine Permalink https://p.dw.com/p/3QcSv Hong Kong's unrest after shooting More than 1,000 students marched at the Chinese University on Thursday in solidarity with Tsang. A day after the shooting, thousands of demonstrators rallied in Hong Kong to demand police accountability for the shooting. Police accountability is one of the main points of action protesters have been calling for in the last 18 consecutive weeks of demonstrations. Protesters have repeatedly demanded an independent investigation into what they claim is police brutality against demonstrators. Hong Kong students have staged peaceful sit-ins at Tsang's school to demonstrate against police violence Hong Kong protesters also staged a sit-in at the shooting victim's school, where students chanted "no rioters, only tyranny," and held up pictures of the incident, taken from videos posted on social media which went viral. Police urged the government on Thursday to impose curfews to help curb the escalating violence across the city. The city is also set to enact an emergency law to ban face masks at rallies, according to a local media source. mvb/ng (AP, Lusa, Reuters) Despite official calls to disperse, demonstrators continued to march on Wednesday. They overturned police barriers and stood their ground even when confronted with pepper spray and a threat by police to use force if they continued to oppose their orders. Some protesters left umbrellas on the police barricades, an homage to the "Occupy Democracy" movement that began in 2014. The massive, months-long campaign was prompted by constitutional reforms that allowed Beijing to approve candidates for Hong Kong elections. Organizers say that over 1 million people have joined in the demonstrations, which blocked two main highways near government headquarters on Wednesday. Most of the protesters are students and young people. Students were boycotting classes to attend the rallies. Activists have decried the move to allow extradition to China, because of Beijing's poor human rights and legal record. Many in Hong Kong are also upset by the creeping authoritarianism in the city, after they were promised autonomy when the territory was given back to China from the UK in 1997. Thousands of officers, including riot police, have been deployed throughout the city. Over the weekend, demonstrators hurled bottles at security forces and tried to push their way into the parliament building, but were blocked. China has long promised Hong Kong self-rule under the "one country, two systems" motto. But for those in the sprawling city, the extradition bill is the latest in a long line of examples of creeping Chinese control. Each evening at 1830 UTC, DW's editors send out a selection of the day's hard news and quality feature journalism. You can sign up to receive it directly here.