The 43-year-old suspect appeared in court in the Australian city of Brisbane on Saturday following his extradition from New Zealand. Police allege he belonged to a syndicate that attempted to smuggle asylum-seekers into Australia on an Indonesian fishing boat in 2001. The vessel, known as Siev X, sank in international waters en route to Australia's Christmas Island, resulting in the deaths of more than 350 people — most of them women and children. Police said the man, then 24, accepted payments from the passengers to help them with transport and accommodation in Indonesia ahead of their sea journey to Australia. Read more: Youth in Australia's Nauru detention center suffering severe mental illness Send  Facebook   Twitter   google+   Whatsapp   Tumblr   linkedin   stumble   Digg   reddit   Newsvine Permalink https://p.dw.com/p/2eimz 'They are owed justice' The suspect, an Iraqi national, was arrested at Brisbane Airport on Friday evening and charged with "organizing groups of non-citizens to Australia." He has been remanded in custody and is due to reappear in court on October 31. If convicted, he faces a maximum of 10 years in prison. Two other individuals have already faced court over the Siev X incident. "Let's not lose sight of the fact that more than 350 people died in this tragedy," Police Commissioner Reece Kershaw said in a police statement. "They are owed justice and we remain committed to deterring those who profit from this trade." Read more: Australian diplomat on refugee policy: ‘We are not inhumane’ The Siev X sinking was controversial in Australia because it took place during an election campaign and at a time when border protection was a major issue. The country's two main political parties have sought to use the tragedy to justify harsh asylum policies, arguing they are necessary to deter people smuggling and boat arrivals. Papua New Guinea authorities entered the Manus Island detention center on Thursday morning to expel asylum seekers. Police Chief Superintendent Dominic Kakas said 50 police and immigration officials entered the camp. "There's no raid. It's an ongoing negotiation with the refugees," Kakas told AP. "It's not an eviction exercise. We're telling them to move because there's water, food and proper shelter on the other side." Residents claim authorities attacked their makeshift supplies again. "They destroyed our food and damaged our accommodation too, they destroyed our water tank," one asylum seeker told Reuters. Deadlines to abandon the camp earlier in November passed without authorities taking action. Food, water and power supplies ended when the Manus camp officially closed on October 31. Police then ramped up pressure by emptying water tanks and removing shelters. Advocacy group Asylum Seeker Resource Center (ASRC) said more than 150 men at in the camp were seriously ill, lacking access to basic first aid or medicine. The United Nations had previously described the standoff as a "looming humanitarian crisis", calling on Australia to take immediate action to avert disaster. The detention center has an ugly history of violence. Iranian asylum seeker Reza Berati was killed — and another 69 asylum seekers injured — during a riot in 2014. Two locals, a guard and a Salvation army employee, were convicted of his murder. Australia's hardline immigration policy has provoked criticism both at home and abroad. President Malcolm Turnbull suggested refugees in Manus were using the situation to gain asylum. "They think that ... in some way they can pressure the Australian government to let them come to Australia. Well, we will not be pressured. We will not outsource our migration policy to people smugglers." Author: Ajit Niranjan nm/tj (Reuters, dpa) Every evening at 1830 UTC, DW's editors send out a selection of the day's hard news and quality feature journalism. You can sign up to receive it directly here.