Kurdish-led Syrian Democratic Forces (SDF) said on Monday that US forces were beginning to withdraw from the border area with Turkey. "Despite our efforts to avoid any military escalation with Turkey, the US forces have not fulfilled their obligations and withdrew their forces from the border areas with Turkey," the SDF said in a statement. "Turkey is now preparing an invasion of northern and eastern Syria," the statement said. The White House had announced the withdrawal on Sunday night, saying that it would not "support or be involved" with planned Turkish military operations in the area. US forces had backed and fought alongside the SDF in their fight against "Islamic State" (IS) fighters in the region, with Washington seeing the Kurdish-led force as the best ally in Syria to combat the extremists. Offensive could come 'without warning' The news comes following an announcement that Turkey would launch a military offensive in northeastern Syria. Turkish news agency DHA reported on Sunday that Turkish tanks and troops were already heading to the Turkish southeastern border area of Akcakale. Turkish President Recep Tayyip Erdogan also confirmed that the withdrawal had begun, saying on Monday morning that a Turkish military offensive in the area could begin at any moment. "We can come any night without warning," he told reporters. Trump: US 'only fights to win' US President Donald Trump's decision to withdraw troops has been criticized not only by Syrian Kurds, who say the US is turning its back on its allies, but also by some of Trump's closest allies in Congress. But Trump took to Twitter on Monday to explain his rationale. Trump said he wanted to get out of Syria for the past three years. He accused Europe of frontloading its captured "Islamic State" (IS) fighters on the US and said the Kurds had been given a lot of money and equipment, noting that they had been fighting the Turkish state for a long time. "It is time for us to get out of these ridiculous Endless Wars, many of them tribal, and bring our soldiers home. WE WILL FIGHT WHERE IT IS TO OUR BENEFIT, AND ONLY FIGHT TO WIN," Trump wrote. "Turkey, Europe, Syria, Iran, Iraq, Russia and the Kurds will now have to .figure the situation out," he added. In response to the news, the United Nations regional humanitarian coordinator for Syria, Panos Moumtzis, said: "We don't know what is going to happen," clarifying that the US had not notified the UN of the decision to withdraw in advance. "We are preparing for the worst," said Moumtzis, adding that the UN already had a contingency plan in place to protect civilians in the area. Map showing the safe zone proposed by Turkish President Erdogan Operation 'could begin at any moment' "Turkey will soon be moving forward with its long-planned operation into northern Syria," said White House Press Secretary Stephanie Grisham in a statement. "The United States Armed Forces will not support or be involved in the operation, and United States forces, having defeated the ISIS territorial 'Caliphate,' will no longer be in the immediate area," the statement said, using the usual White House abbreviation for "Islamic State." The statement also criticized "France, Germany and other European nations" for not repatriating their citizens currently detained in Syria who had joined IS. "Turkey will now be responsible for all ISIS fighters in the area captured over the past two years in the wake of the defeat of the territorial 'Caliphate' by the United States," the statement said. 'Safe zone' The White House statement came following a phone call between the Turkish president and his US counterpart, Donald Trump. Erdogan and Trump also discussed the implementation of a "safe zone" east of the Euphrates River in northern Syria. NATO allies agreed on the safe zone in August, but the US and Turkey are currently in disagreement about how far the zone should extend. It is unclear whether the US will be completely withdrawing troops from all of Syria, as Trump announced in December. Erdogan said following the phone call that the creation of a safe zone was "key to neutralizing the threat" of US-backed Kurdish militia in the region. A spokeswoman for German Chancellor Angela Merkel said on Monday that Germany is aware of the "special security policy situation" that Turkey faces on its border. Syrian Kurdish forces "must not be endangered," the spokeswoman stressed. Turkish armored vehicles patrol the "safe zone" on the Syrian side of the border 'Clear terrorist elements' Erdogan also expressed his "frustration over the US military and security bureaucracy's failure" to implement the safe zone since it was agreed upon in August. Turkish spokesman Ibrahim Kalin clarified in a tweet on Monday morning that the purpose of safe zone was to clear terrorist elements from the border and return refugees safely to Syria. Turkey has previously said it wants to settle up to 2 million Syrian refugees in the zone. ed/dr (AFP, Reuters, dpa) Every evening, DW's editors send out a selection of the day's hard news and quality feature journalism. You can sign up to receive it directly here. Send  Facebook   Twitter   google+   Whatsapp   Tumblr   linkedin   stumble   Digg   reddit   Newsvine Permalink https://p.dw.com/p/3Qn8A