China's ruling Communist Party has begun celebrating 70 years in power, with a parade showcasing the country's economic growth and newest weapons topping the agenda. Tuesday's main event marks the anniversary of the announcement on October 1, 1949, of the founding of the People's Republic of China by then-leader Mao Zedong following a two-decade civil war. "There is no force that can shake the foundation of this great nation," President Xi Jinping said early Tuesday, standing alongside party leaders on Tiananmen Square, the site of a multiday massacre of pro-democracy demonstrators in 1989. "No force can stop the Chinese people and the Chinese nation from forging ahead." Read more: 'Communist Party keeps their people well-fed, but in a cage' Send  Facebook   Twitter   google+   Whatsapp   Tumblr   linkedin   stumble   Digg   reddit   Newsvine Permalink https://p.dw.com/p/3QVpV The military put its most advanced weapons on display in the Tuesday morning parade, including the first public appearance of a nuclear missile designed to evade US defense systems. Thousands of soldiers marched in lockstep through the square as fighter jets flew by. Read more: Hong Kong activist Joshua Wong to run for local office The parade follows Xi's promise to allow the semi-autonomous territory of Hong Kong to manage its own affairs despite anti-government protests that have embarrassed the Communist Party ahead of the year's highest-profile propaganda event. The display lets the Communist Party leadership project an image of national strength and unity in the face of challenges — including Hong Kong's political unrest, slowing economic growth and a trade war with the United States. Send  Facebook   Twitter   google+   Whatsapp   Tumblr   linkedin   stumble   Digg   reddit   Newsvine Permalink https://p.dw.com/p/3QZs6 Nearly four months of street demonstrations and the violent official response to them have wracked the former British colony, posing the gravest popular challenge to Xi since he came to power in 2012. Read more: Thousands rally in Hong Kong to mark Umbrella Movement anniversary Mao Zedong appeared on the balcony of the Gate of Heavenly Peace and announced the founding of the People's Republic of China (PRC). His announcement followed years of intense civil war between various warlords vying to take control following the fall of the Qing dynasty and people hoped he would unify the country and bring peace. In 1956, the Chinese Communist Party (CCP) reformed the ancient Chinese written script. The CCP hoped to increase literacy levels and take China into the modern era. Some linguists feel that much of the pictographic meaning embedded within the script was lost in the process. Literacy has been rising, from just over 60% of the population in 1982 to over 96% in 2018, according to a UNESCO report. In 1959, an anti-Chinese and anti-Communist popular revolt erupted in Lhasa, capital of Tibet. One week later, the 14th Dalai Lama, Tibet's political and spiritual leader, escaped to India to avoid the ensuing crackdown. Tibet remains under control of Beijing and expressing signs of loyalty to the Dalai Lama can be met with arrests, prison sentences, torture and "re-education" programs. In 1966, Mao Zedong began the chaotic ten-year cultural revolution period, meant to revitalize the Communist project. It was carried out by students and the "Red Guard" gangs attacked people thought to have opposite values to those of the Communist Party. Many famous writers, intellectuals and academics committed suicide after facing public humiliation. Mao Zedong is celebrated as a hero in modern-day China and his embalmed body remains a tourist destination for many Chinese. In China, he is viewed as the person who restored respect and pride to his country on the world stage. In the West, he is largely seen as causing many deaths through his failed collectivization projects during the 1960s. Mao Zedong may have created the PRC, but Deng Xiaoping created modern-day China. He pioneered special economic zones such as Shenzhen, where companies were able to export to the outside. By doing so in a controlled manner, Deng successfully managed a transition from Communist to a controlled market economy. This paved the way for the economic success that China sees today. Falun Gong is a set of meditation exercises founded in 1992 by Li Hongzhi. By the late 1990s millions of Chinese had taken up Falun Gong but its growing popularity scared the CCP. The party banned the practice in 1999 arresting thousands of its practitioners. In 2019 the UK-based China Tribunal said there was clear evidence that Falun Gong members had their organs harvested by the Chinese state. Beijing underwent a huge development boom in the build-up to hosting the 2008 Olympic Games. Its national stadium, known as the Bird's nest, and the National Swimming Centre, known as the "Water Cube" were symbols of a new Beijing. During the event US swimmer Michael Phelps claimed eight gold medals, beating Mark Spritz’s seven at the 1972 Munich Games. The Belt and Road initiative is a vast transcontinental infrastructure project throughout Asia, Europe, and Africa begun by Xi Jinping in 2013. According to the Brookings Institute, the initiative is popular with governments in the developing world, filling infrastructure gaps and boosting growth. Others worry that the loans provided by Beijing will leave developing countries indebted to China. In January 2019 Chinese State Television (CCTV) reported that China's Chang'e-4 probe had touched down on the far side of the moon. It landed in the lunar South Pole's Aitken Basin. The achievement marked an important step in China’s ambitions to challenge US and Russian space dominance. China hopes to become a major space power by 2030. 'Day of grief' in Hong Kong At a formal flag-raising ceremony and National Day reception at the Convention and Exhibition Centre in Hong Kong to mark the anniversary Tuesday, territorial Chief Secretary Matthew Cheung said Hong Kong had become "unrecognizable." He said officials would use new thinking to address the deep-rooted social issues contributing to protester grievances. Cheung attended the event in the place of municipal leader Carrie Lam, who led a delegation to Beijing for the major military parade and festivities to mark the anniversary. Hong Kong's government mounted tight security ahead of rallies planned in multiple locations on Tuesday. Protest posters have called on people to mark October 1 as "a day of grief." Read more: 30 years after Tiananmen, is China's pro-democracy movement losing steam? Central government loyalists scuffled briefly with a small group of pro-democracy protesters in Hong Kong as the latter began to march at 7:30 a.m. Tuesday (2330 UTC Monday) to start the expected day of protests. Police lined up to try to keep the two groups apart, arresting two loyalists. Send  Facebook   Twitter   google+   Whatsapp   Tumblr   linkedin   stumble   Digg   reddit   Newsvine Permalink https://p.dw.com/p/3QTS6 mkg, knp/cmk (Reuters, AFP, dpa, AP) DW's editors send out a selection of the day's news and features. Sign up here.