If imitation is the sincerest form of flattery, then Red Bull Salzburg have paid Liverpool the ultimate compliment. Five months after the last European visitors to Anfield were on the end of the most astonishing comeback in Champions League history, the Austrian side came agonisingly close to topping it; coming back from 3-0 down to draw level, only for a Mo Salah strike to break their hearts. But never their spirit. “Wow. They were really good, honestly," said Liverpool's former Salzburg winger Sadio Mane after the game. "I think we deserved to win but it was a very tough game. I know this team – they never give up, they try to score all the time and they caused us problems.” For the first third of the game, it had all looked so easy for the hosts. All the talk of Salzburg sharing Liverpool's predilection for pressing, of their American coach Jesse Marsch sharing Jürgen Klopp's compassion and nous and of their scouting system unearthing a string of exceptional young talents felt like so much hot air. "We had way too much respect for them in the first half," admitted Marsch. Fittingly enough, Mane, the best example of that diamond-polishing player recruitment policy, sprinted away down the left touchline, exchanged passes with Roberto Firmino and gave his side a deserved ninth minute lead. As the ground erupted, Marsch hollered above the din to get the attention of his right back, Rasmus Kristensen. Somehow he managed to be heard and the Dane trotted over to receive his instructions, or perhaps admonishment. Stuttering start for Salzburg The width of a set of goalposts away, Klopp's celebrations were muted, the German saving his animated moments for his men turning the ball over in midfield or shifting vertically through the lines at speed. He knows that it's the dirty work, the effort and the unity of purpose that gives his men the platform to play. Marsch has also been keen to instill similar virtues in his side but 16 minutes after Mane's opener, he must have wondered whether that would be anywhere near enough. With the hosts sensing blood, Andy Robertson surged forward with the ball. Marsch sensed the danger quicker than Kristensen and left his technical area to physically point out the Liverpool fullback's advanced position, his outstretched finger just inches from the Scot. He may have wished he'd gone for a quick tug of the shirt and taken the booking when Robertson arrived in the box to slot home a low cross from Trent Alexander-Arnold. It was another ruthless demonstration of breakneck but controlled football, executed so perfectly as to appear automatic - the kind of move that takes years to groove, and special players to perform. One of those special players, Salah this time, added a third on 36 minutes, surely game over. The visitors had played themselves in to decent positions a few times only for touch and composure to let them down, with South Korean striker Hee-Chan Hwang a particularly guilty party. As such, his smart turn past Virgil van Dijk and crisp finish to pull the score back to 3-1 just before the break offered Marsch evidence that his players can respond to adversity, something they've become unaccustomed to domestically. Mo Salah scores Liverpool's winner Unlike Barcelona, the team from the birthplace of Mozart weren't prepared to face the music and built towards a crescendo in the second half, with Adrian almost gifting them a goal before Hwang again scuffed a presentable chance wide. "We opened the door and they came running through," said Klopp. On the touchline, Marsch sensed that door was swinging on its hinges. He pumped his fist and whirled his hands in the air, giving his striker the thumbs up despite his miss. Moments later he was celebrating the real thing as Hwang, once again demonstrating a rare resilience, picked out a cross to Takumi Minamino on the edge of the box and the Japanese midfielder lashed it home on the volley. Celebrations and loss of control But amidst the celebrations, Marsch was planning. He'd yet to bring out his biggest weapon and turned to Erling Braut Haaland, the 19-year-old whose hat-trick against Genk on matchday one had captured the imagination of Europe and the eye of scouts from the biggest clubs. Less than three minutes after coming on, he was hugging his boss after drawing his side level. Marsch finally lost any semblance of control and eventually got that booking, for sprinting on the pitch to celebrate with the players who'd done him so proud. "I think that the main lesson to be learned from this is that we can play at this level, against an opponent like this, on this ground. If we play our football we will always have a chance," concluded Marsch Thier first experience of the biggest stage suggests that Salzburg will earn themselves more chances. And if there's a team worth imitating, the champions of Europe are a decent place to start. But, on Wednesday night, Marsch and Red Bull Salzburg proved they're much more than a facsimile. After just four years at the club, it seems difficult to imagine a Liverpool without Jürgen Klopp. Having led the club to Champions League glory, Klopp is still looking for his first Premier League title, and based on their flying start to the season, this could be Liverpool's year. For their manager, it's been a long road that started... ... as a player in Germany's second division. Jürgen Klopp played professional football for 15 years, spending 11 of them in Mainz. He started out as an attacker but ended his career as a defender. He retired midway through the 2001-02 season to fill the coaching vacancy at Mainz after the club sacked head coach Eckhard Krautzun. As a player, he never made it to the Bundesliga. During Klopp's playing career, Mainz frequently fought against relegation to the German third tier. That changed when he took the helm at the club. In Klopp's third season, Mainz earned promotion to the Bundesliga for the first time in club history. Klopp enjoyed three seasons in the top flight before Mainz were relegated again in 2007. He left the club a year later to join Borussia Dortmund. Klopp's appointment was part of a broader strategy change at Borussia Dortmund: to make football stars instead of buying them. He committed to 20-year-olds Mats Hummels and Neven Subotic as his center back pair — the youngest in the Bundesliga. Dortmund finished in sixth place and fifth place in his first two seasons at the club. From 2010 to 2012, Klopp lead Dortmund to their most successful two-year stretch in club history. They won their first Bundesliga title in nearly a decade in 2010-11. Klopp backed that accomplishment up by leading BVB to their first ever domestic double the following season. It didn't take long for Dortmund fans to fall in love with Klopp. His press conferences became a weekly spectacle and his energy on the touchline became contagious. On the pitch, he implemented an active, high-pressing system that brought BVB, a club that was only a few years removed from near insolvency, back to the pinnacle of German football. Klopp did not secure domestic silverware after that two-year run, but he did lead Dortmund to the Champions League final in 2013 — their first final since their 1997 title. His side ultimately came up short against Bayern Munich, losing 2-1 late on to hand their German rivals a piece of their treble that year. Klopp's last season with Dortmund in 2014-15 was far worse than any other. His side was second bottom at the winter break, though Klopp wound up leading them to a seventh placed finish. He did manage to get BVB to the German Cup final before losing to Wolfsburg. Dortmund and Klopp decided to part ways after the season, ending his seven-year stint with the team. It didn't take long for Klopp to land back on his feet. Liverpool appointed the German coach in October of 2015, less than five months after he parted ways with Dortmund. In his first press conference, Klopp dubbed himself "The Normal One" — after being asked how he fitted in compared to the likes of Jose Mourinho, who notoriously once called himself "a special one." Liverpool fans took to Klopp's highly animated coaching approach, but it didn't initally lead to success. The Reds finished eighth in the Premier League in his first season, though he did lead them to the Europa League final before losing to Sevilla. But he guided Liverpool to the Champions League with a fourth-place finish the following season before their third place finish this past season. Much like he was in Dortmund, Klopp has become a club favorite at Liverpool. His passionate personality and the attractive attacking football enabled by players like Mohamed Salah and Sadio Mane have proved a real hit in the stands. In 2017-18, Klopp guided Liverpool to the brink of the biggest title in European club football. However, an injury to Mo Salah and two blunders by German goalkeeper Loris Karius put paid to Liverpool's hopes of winning the 2018 Champions League. One year later it all came good for Jürgen Klopp. At the Wanda Metropolitano in Madrid Liverpool won the 2019 Champions League, beating another Premier League outfit, Tottenham Hotspur, 2-0 in the final. This was his first trophy with Liverpool and his first Champions League title. On the strength of having guided Liverpool to the 2019 Champions League title - and a second-place finish in the Premier League, Jürgen Klopp won the 2019 FIFA "Best" award in the coaching category, beating out Manchester City's Pep Guardiola and Tottenham's Mauricio Pochettino. Author: Davis VanOpdorp, Chuck Penfold 