Former Secretary of State and Democratic presidential nominee Hillary Clinton has returned to warn that Russia, which interfered in her 2016 loss, may attempt to recruit a fringe Democrat for a third-party run in 2020. Clinton stopped short of mentioning Congresswoman Tulsi Gabbard by name during an appearance on the Campaign HQ With David Plouffe podcast released late Thursday. Clinton said Kremlin officials had "their eye on somebody who's currently in the Democratic primary and are grooming her to be the third-party candidate." Five women remain in the race. Senators Elizabeth Warren, Kamala Harris and Amy Klobuchar enjoy broader backing than the isolationist candidate from the archipelago; spiritual guide Marianne Williamson would have little value for Moscow. Read more: Explosives mailed to Obama, Clintons, CNN and other politicians Sites tied to Russia celebrate Gabbard's campaign, defend her 2017 meeting with Syrian President Bashar Assad and attack people who call her a Kremlin pawn. Last week, The New York Times quoted influential Republicans impressed by Gabbard's policy positions and energy. Conspiracy theorist Mike Cernovich said she "seems very Trumpian" — a reference to US President Donald Trump, whom Gabbard said she sought to replace. Gabbard called Clinton the "personification of the rot that has sickened the Democratic Party for so long." In several tweets on Friday, she also alleged there has been a "concerted campaign" to destroy her reputation since she announced her presidential run in January. Read more: Trump lawyer Michael Cohen testifies to US Congress During Tuesday's Democratic debate, Gabbard said the Times published "smears" and called CNN "completely despicable" for allowing a commentator to label her "an asset of Russia." Send  Facebook   Twitter   google+   Whatsapp   Tumblr   linkedin   stumble   Digg   reddit   Newsvine Permalink https://p.dw.com/p/3BkxT 'A Russian asset' Officials concluded that Russia interfered in the 2016 election to boost Trump's chances of winning the presidency. Clinton said Kremlin officials knew that they couldn't help the immensely unpopular Trump win reelection without a third-party candidate to siphon votes from the Democrats, which is why they would need to recruit one. Clinton called the unnamed Democrat "the favorite of the Russians." Read more: 12 Russians charged for hacking 2016 US presidential election "They have a bunch of sites and bots and other ways of supporting her so far," Clinton told Plouffe, who served as former President Barack Obama's campaign manager when he beat her for the 2008 Democratic nomination and later John McCain for the presidency. Read more: Russian trolls targeted black US voters in 2016, says report "That's assuming Jill Stein will give it up, which she might not because she's also a Russian asset," Clinton said. The Green Party candidate, who received 1% of ballots in 2016, may have won enough votes in competitive states to tip the election to Trump. In 2016, Stein won more votes than Trump's margin of victory in Michigan, Wisconsin and Pennsylvania — three states that would have secured the presidency for Clinton had she won them. Read more: James Comey talks Trump, Russia probe and 2016 election Clinton called Trump, who lost the popular vote to her by nearly 3 million votes but was handed the presidency thanks to a handful of competitive states with slim margins in the 2016 election, "Vladimir Putin's dream." She said Trump's inauguration speech, delivered just two months after the shocking election, had sounded "like a declaration of war on half of America." At just 30 years old, Jon Ossoff could soon be the youngest US congressman and pull off a major victory for the Democratic Party. The Democrat just pulled in over 48 percent of the vote in a special election on Tuesday in Georgia's sixth congressional district. The election was called because long-serving Republican house member Tom Price was appointed Health Secretary in Trump's cabinet. June's runoff election will pit Ossoff against Republican Karen Handel, 55, who pulled in just under 20 percent initially. The young documentary filmmaker has been backed by progressive activists nationwide in an effort to turn the district, long held by conservatives, Democratic. If elected, Ossoff would be the youngest member of Congress and one of just six representatives born after 1980. The youngest member of the current House is 32-year-old Elise Stefanik. The Republican from New York State was first voted into office at age 30 in 2014, making her the youngest woman ever elected to Congress. Stefanik is among the leaders of the Tuesday Group, a group of moderate House Republicans. She recently opposed President Trump's "travel ban" for people from Muslim-majority countries. The youngest Democrat currently serving in the House is Tulsi Gabbard. The 36-year old Hawaiian was first elected in 2013. Gabbard, who endorsed Bernie Sanders in the 2016 primary, is considered part of the progressive wing of the Democratic party, but has also come under fire from within her own party for supporting a bill backed by conservatives to block refugees from resettling in the US. The youngest current U.S. Senator is Tom Cotton, a 39-year old Republican from Arkansas. First elected in 2015, Cotton is known as a staunch conservative. News site "The Atlantic" once said that the Harvard-educated lawyer "unites the factions of the Republican civil war: The establishment loves his background, while the Tea Party loves his ideological purity." Colorado Republican Cory Gardner (pictured right), 42, and Connecticut Democrat Chris Murphy (left), 43, are the second- and third-youngest current Senators. Gardner, like House millennial Stefanik, is a moderate conservative who has criticized Trump's "travel ban". Murphy made a name for himself as an advocate for stricter gun control legislation. While John F. Kennedy might be remembered as the prototypical young president, he is in fact only the second youngest US president. Theodore "Teddy" Roosevelt was roughly 9 month younger than Kennedy when he was sworn into office at age 42 in 1901, making him the youngest president in US history. Current president Donald Trump (70) is the oldest man ever elected president. The youngest person ever elected to Congress, William C. C. Claiborne, entered the House at age 22 in 1797. The US Constitution originally required House members to be at least 21, but today that threshold is 25. The minimum age for senators has always been 30, though this rule has not always been enforced. To this day, four Senators were sworn in at age 28 or 29, all in the early 1800s. In many other countries, citizens only have to reach the legal voting age (usually 18) in order to be eligible in the elections. Among the rare breed of teens elected to the national parliament are Anton Abele (pictured), voted into the Swedish parliament in 2010 at age 18, and Proscovia Alengot Oromait and Pierre-Luc Dusseault from Uganda and Canada, respectively, both elected in 2011 at age 19. Author: Mara Bierbach mkg/sms (AFP, AP) DW's editors send out a selection of the day's news and features. Sign up directly here.