At least eight people were killed in clashes between police and protesters in Baghdad on Sunday, medical and security sources said. The violence erupted in Sadr City, the Shiite-dominated neighborhood in the east of the Iraqi capital. Military troops blocked the main road leading to Baghdad's central Tahrir Square and then reportedly fired at the protesters to suppress them. Protesters burned tires and launched fireworks at the police. The latest clashes follow days of apparently spontaneous unrest, with Iraqi citizens expressing their frustration with poverty and corruption in the country. On Sunday, the government said that over 100 people, including several members of the security forces, have been killed since the anti-government protests first started on Tuesday. Over 6,000 more have been wounded, according to the officials. Send  Facebook   Twitter   google+   Whatsapp   Tumblr   linkedin   stumble   Digg   reddit   Newsvine Permalink https://p.dw.com/p/3Qo69 Backing from Shiite cleric Demonstrators and journalists attending the rallies reported security forces firing live rounds at the participants. On Sunday, however, Iraqi Interior Ministry spokesman Saad Maan denied that police and military troops had directly targeted the citizens. Instead, he said that "malicious hands" were targeting both the protesters and the security members. "Security forces did all they could to preserve the safety of the protesters and security personnel," Maan said. "We express our deep regret over the bloodshed." The Iraqi government is worried about political fallout, with protesters backed by powerful cleric Muqtada al-Sadr. The Shiite cleric, who controls the largest bloc in the Iraq parliament, has already sided with protesters and called for Prime Minister Adel Abdul-Mahdi to resign. Send  Facebook   Twitter   google+   Whatsapp   Tumblr   linkedin   stumble   Digg   reddit   Newsvine Permalink https://p.dw.com/p/3QnFa Dead protesters to become 'martyrs' Meanwhile, Abdul-Mahdi has pledged to meet with "brotherly protesters" without armed escort. "I will go and meet them without weapons and sit with them for hours to listen to their demands," he said on Saturday. He also introduced a series of 17 measures to appease the protesters, such as boosting welfare and unemployment benefits, providing subsidized housing and land, and creating new jobs. According to Abdul-Mahdi, people killed in the unrest would be designated as "martyrs", making them eligible for state benefits. While the Saturday pledge failed to stop the violence, the latest protests saw fewer people take to the streets compared to previous days. Send  Facebook   Twitter   google+   Whatsapp   Tumblr   linkedin   stumble   Digg   reddit   Newsvine Permalink https://p.dw.com/p/3QmBy Iraq's semi-official High Commission for Human Rights slammed the police response. "There is no justification for the use of live bullets against peaceful demonstrators," commission's chief Aqeel al-Musawi said. dj/rc (AP, AFP, Reuters) Every evening, DW sends out a selection of the day's news and features. Sign up here.