Rival political rallies of both supporters and opponents of Bolivian President Evo Morales ended in clashes on Monday, leaving dozens injured. The unrest came in the wake of a contested presidential election that was marred by irregularities and saw Morales claim victory over his opponent, former President Carlos Mesa. In a final and legally binding vote count, the leftist leader tallied 47.08% of the vote to Mesa's 36.51%, clearing the hurdle to avoid a runoff by just over half a percentage point. Both Morales and Mesa claimed to have won the election, accusing each other of inciting violence. Mesa has claimed that electoral fraud was employed to get the leftist president to get over the 10% runoff requirement. The former president has pointed to a sudden and unexplained change in the electoral results. With 84% of votes counted after the polls closed, all signs had pointed to an election runoff. But after a 24-hour pause in vote counting, a sudden spike in Morales' favor saw the incumbent pull ahead with a razor-thin win. "We have decided to confront the authoritarianism, on the way to a dictatorship, the authoritarianism that seeks to rob us of an election," Mesa told supporters at a rally. The Organization of American States (OAS) has expressed "surprise" and "concern" over the ballot count and has agreed to carry out an audit of the results, which UN Secretary-General Antonio Guterres said he "fully" backs. Morales, who has been in power since 2006, has denied the charges of fraud, telling supporters at his rally that he lamented the fact that "some groups do not recognize the triumph of the Bolivian people.” "They aren't the majority, they are small groups," the long-serving president said. On Sunday Morales claimed the opposition was preparing for a "coup d'etat." Read more: Bolivians protest over lithium deal with German company Opposing sides clash Residents in southern La Paz used branches, rubble and rope to close roads and block access to public transport, with some bus drivers trying to remove the barricades. Fistfights broke out between rival groups, which then degenerated into battles with sticks and stones as police used tear gas to try to disperse them. In the central city of Cochabamba, clashes broke out between opposition supporters setting up barricades and Morales' loyalists. Residents blocked roads using cars, wooden planks, rope and dumpsters in both the middle-class south and working-class north of La Paz. In the eastern city of Santa Cruz, clashes left some 30 people wounded, one of them from a gunshot, government sources said. Local media also reported injuries in the city of Cochabamba. jcg/stb (AP, Reuters) According to official numbers, wildfires have burned through more than 1 million hectares of dry forest and farmland in Bolivia. In the area of Santa Rosa de Tucabaca in the country's eastern Chiquitania region, the fires have raged for over a month, threatening indigenous populations and devastating Bolivia's rich biodiversity. Out-of-control wildfires light up the night sky. The unique Chiquitania region — characterized by both savannah and forest — experienced a severe drought this year. It's common practice for farmers to start small, easily-monitored fires during the months of July and August to prepare the soil for the next harvest. But many have quickly spread this season and morphed into wildfires. Areas of forest which have already been cut down are more likely to catch alight. Many of the fires in Bolivia were started by small farmers after President Evo Morales passed legislation in July that encourages slash-and-burn farming to open up new land for agricultural use. Morales has been accused of pushing populist policies and failing to act quickly to contain the wildfires. The fires are still expanding through the Chiquitania region. Indigenous people have been affected, including the Chiquitanos and the Ayoreos peoples, who produce citrus fruits, beans, rice, and corn. Vania Montenegro Aranibar (39) is a local farmer from the village of Peniel, where she cultivates lemons, passion fruits and avocados. The fire quickly surrounded her property, destroying her fields and killing her ducks. "They died in half an hour because their feathers caught on fire," she told DW. "I'm very sad how many animals must have been burned, how many species, trees." This anteater was just one of countless animals caught in the fires which passed through the area of Chochis. Firefighters on the ground have described heartbreaking scenes of terrified animals fleeing from the flames, including armadillos, snakes, tapirs and jaguars. Those who survived are now at risk of starvation due to the lack of food and water. Firefighters Moises Soria Valverde and Ronald Picolomini visit a badly affected area in Santa Rosa de Tucabaca. Alongside other firefighters, they are helping with efforts to try and control the massive wildfires. They cut through the dense forest with machetes and try to extinguish the flames with 20 liter water tanks on their backs. But the battle still feels like an impossible fight. Outside of the village of Robore, the wildfires have now spread to areas mostly inaccessible to firefighters. The Chiquitano dry forests are part of an ecoregion connecting the tropical Amazon biome with the semiarid Gran Chaco region, which stretches into western Paraguay, northern Argentina and part of Brazil. Author: Juan Gabriel Estellano Each evening at 1830 UTC, DW's editors send out a selection of the day's hard news and quality feature journalism. You can sign up to receive it directly here.