The final draft of the new climate protection law, set to be adopted by Germany's government this week, has been significantly watered down from earlier proposals, Spiegel magazine reported. German officials have cut the goal to limit national CO2 emission by 2040, according to the report. Also, the latest version of the bill drops the pledge that Germany would reach greenhouse-gas neutrality by 2050. Instead, it only says this goal should be "pursued." Another change considers the national climate council, the body of experts appointed by the government. The final draft removes the demand for the council to produce a yearly evaluation report. Also, the experts would no longer be required to provide advice to ministries on adjusting their CO2 rate to keep them on track. However, the bill keeps the goal for Germany to reduce its CO2 emissions by 2030 to a level corresponding to 55% of what the nation's output was in 1990. Conservatives opposed The partners in Germany's ruling coalition, Angela Merkel's conservative bloc and the center-left SPD, debated on a new climate protection bill in March. The proposals circulated at the time envisioned a much deeper change than the law's current iteration seen by Spiegel. Even so, climate activists and political opponents slammed the original draft as insufficient. Send  Facebook   Twitter   google+   Whatsapp   Tumblr   linkedin   stumble   Digg   reddit   Newsvine Permalink https://p.dw.com/p/3Pz9q Read more: Will Germany go from leader to loser on climate protection? The conservative bloc has since pushed for the law to be scaled back, according to sources inside the ruling coalition cited by the magazine. Several lawmakers slammed the changes after Spiegel published its report on Sunday evening. Senior SPD representative Karl Lauterbach warned against standing "on the wrong side of history." "If the climate protection package gets even more weakened by the conservatives, it will be just a paper tiger," he said. Read more: Extinction Rebellion: How far can the protests go? 'Incredible!' Britta Hasselmann, from the opposition Green party, described the move as a "declaration of bankruptcy." "Incredible!" she wrote on Twitter, noting that even the original proposal would not be able to deliver on the goals set by the Paris climate accords. "It would seem that the government is lagging behind even that — it can't get any worse," she added. The timing of the report could prove to be particularly harmful for the ruling coalition. On Monday, the global Extinction Rebellion movement is staging worldwide protests to protect the climate. The activists are expected to protest the limitation of the upcoming climate law in Berlin. Protesters have already set up camp in front of Angela Merkel's office and were reportedly preparing to block the streets. dj/dr (dpa, AFP, dpa, Reuters) Every evening, DW sends out a selection of the day's news and features. Sign up here.