Responding to Chile's President Sebastian Pinera announced a package of social measures on Tuesday, following five days of violent proteststhat have left at least 15 people dead. Read more: What's behind wealthy Chile's deadly protests? In a speech at the presidential palace in Santiago, president Pinera said he would increase the universal basic pension by 20%, freeze tariffs on electricity and proposed a law that would see the state cover the costs of expensive medical treatment. "Faced with the legitimate needs and social demands of the citizenship, we have received with humility and clarity the message Chileans have given us," Pinera said. Chilean president Sebastian Pinera has promised reforms in a bid to ease protests Following his speech, the president took to Twitter to post the new social agenda saying that he has heard the voices of the Chilean people "loud and clear." Read more: Opinion: Chile protests shine light on economic inequality Are the reforms enough? Send  Facebook   Twitter   google+   Whatsapp   Tumblr   linkedin   stumble   Digg   reddit   Newsvine Permalink https://p.dw.com/p/3RfoF The president's proposal comes ahead of general strike planned for Wednesday. The Copper Workers Federation (FTC) announced it would participate in the strike along with teachers and public sector employees. On Tuesday, workers at the Escondida mine, the largest copper deposit in the world, partially paralyzed work in support of the demonstrations. The protests were sparked when the Chilean government announced it was going to increase the fares on the Santiago metro. The fare-hike has since been cancelled, but not before 15 people died and over 1,900 people were arrested  in the student-led protests, according to UN human rights chief Michelle Bachelet. The sight of soldiers on the streets is unsettling for many citizens of a country still haunted by memories of military rule under dictator Augusto Pinochet. Armored personnel carriers drove slowly through the streets deploying heavily-armed troops as violence worsened in the capital, Santiago, and across the country. Here, one demonstrator waves a Chilean flag as the troops spread out. Although Chile is one of South America's wealthiest economies, resentment has been rising over increased living costs and the shortcomings of public services. With Santiago engulfed in rioting over several days, security forces and protesters clashed repeatedly. The protests began over a planned hike in transport fares last week, but have turned into a movement against Chile's economic model of creeping privatization, low wages and growing inequality. Metro stations, buses and businesses were set ablaze as the protests began to turn violent. Soldiers were deployed on the capital's streets for the first time since the military dictatorship ended in 1990, and a state of emergency was imposed. Curfews were also put in place in several other Chilean cities. Although President Sebastian Pinera canceled the planned hike in subway fares, the violence has only worsened, leading to nearly a dozen deaths. Tear gas has been used against the protesters, and the army confirmed it had shot people dead while chasing looters. Meanwhile, at least three people died when supermarkets were set on fire. This demonstrator is holding a sign that reads "Let's be realistic, let's ask for the impossible." After meeting with heads of the legislature and judicial system, President Pinera has pledged to seek "solutions" to "reduce excessive inequalities" in the country. Protesters, however, don't appear to placated. Author: Richard Connor kmm/ (AFP/EFE) Every evening, DW sends out a selection of the day's news and features. Sign up here.